

<<<PAGE 1>>>
18[APPENDIX A: 
 
I.FOOD CATEGORY SYSTEM 
 
The food category system is a tool for assigning food additive uses in these 
Regulations. The food category system applies to all foodstuffs. The food 
category descriptors are not to be legal product designations nor are they 
intended for labelling purposes. The food category system is based on the 
following principles: 
 
(a) The food category system is hierarchical, meaning that when an additive is 
recognised for use in a general category, it is recognised for use in all its 
sub-categories, unless otherwise stated. Similarly, when an additive is 
recognised for use in a sub-category, its use is recognised in any further 
subcategories or individual foodstuffs mentioned in a sub-category. The 
food category system is based on product descriptors of foodstuffs as 
marketed, unless otherwise stated. 
 
(b) The food category system takes into consideration the carry-over principle. 
By doing so, the food category system does not need to specifically 
mention compound foodstuffs (e.g. prepared meals, such as pizza, because 
they may contain, pro rata, all the additives endorsed for use in their 
components), unless the compound foodstuff needs an additive that is not 
endorsed for use in any of its components. 
 
1.0 Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of food category 2.0 
 
1.1 Milk and dairy-based drinks 
 
1.1.1 
Milk and buttermilk (plain) 
 
1.1.1.1 
Milk (plain) 
 
1.1.1.2 Buttermilk (plain) 
 
1.1.2 Dairy-based drinks, flavoured and/or fermented  
 


<<<PAGE 2>>>
1.2 Fermented and renneted milk products (plain), excluding food category (dairy-
based drinks) 
 
1.2.1 
Fermented milks (plain) 
 
1.2.1.1 Fermented 
milks 
(plain), 
not 
heat-treated 
after 
fermentation 
 
1.2.1.2 Fermented milks (plain), heat-treated after fermentation 
 
1.2.2 
Renneted milk (plain) 
 
1.3 Condensed milk and analogues (plain) 
 
1.3.1 Condensed milk (plain) 
 
1.3.2  Beverage whiteners 
 
52[1.3.2.1   Non - dairy based beverage whitener] 
1.4 Cream (plain) and the like 
 
1.4.1 Pasteurized cream (plain) 
 
1.4.2 Sterilized and UHT creams, whipping and whipped creams, and reduced 
fat creams(plain) 
 
1.4.3 Clotted cream (plain) 
 
1.4.4 Cream analogues 
 
1.5 Milk powder and cream powder and powder analogues (plain) 
 
1.5.1 Milk powder and cream powder (plain) 
52[1.5.1.1 Dairy based dairy whitener] 
 
1.5.2 Milk and cream powder analogues 
 


<<<PAGE 3>>>
1.6 Cheese and analogues 
 
1.6.1 Unripened cheese 
1.6.2 Ripened cheese 
 
1.6.2.1 
Ripened cheese, includes rind 
 
1.6.2.2 
Rind of ripened cheese 
 
1.6.2.3 
Cheese powder  
 
1.6.3 Whey cheese 
 
1.6.4 Processed cheese 
 
1.6.4.1 
Plain processed cheese 
 
1.6.4.2 
Flavoured processed cheese, including containing 
fruit, vegetables, meat etc. 
 
1.6.5 Cheese analogues 
 
1.6.6 Whey protein cheese 
 
1.7 Dairy-based desserts  
1.8 Whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses 
1.8.1 Liquid whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses 
 
1.8.2 Dried whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses. 
2.0    Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
2.1    Fats and oils essentially free from water 
2.1.1 Butter oil, anhydrous milk fat, ghee 
2.1.2 Vegetable oils and fats 
2.1.3 Lard, tallow, fish oil, and other animal fats 


<<<PAGE 4>>>
2.2 Fat emulsions mainly of type water-in-oil 
2.2.1 Butter 
2.2.2 Fat spreads, dairy fat spreads and blended spreads 
2.3 Fat emulsions mainly of type oil-in-water, including mixed and/or flavoured 
products based on fat emulsions 
2.4 Fat-based desserts excluding dairy-based dessert products of food category 1.7 
 
2.4.1 Coco based spreads, including fillings 
3.0 Edible ices, including sherbet and sorbet 
 
4.0 Fruits and vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
 
4.1 Fruit 
4.1.1 Fresh fruit 
4.1.1.1 Untreated fresh fruit 
4.1.1.2 Surface-treated fresh fruit 
52[4.1.1.3 Peeled or cut, minimally processed fruit] 
4.1.2 Processed fruit 
4.1.2.1 Frozen fruit 
4.1.2.2 Dried fruit, nuts and seeds 
4.1.2.3 Fruit in vinegar, oil, or brine 
4.1.2.4 Canned or bottled (pasteurized) fruit 
4.1.2.5 Jams, jellies, marmalades, fruit bar/toffee and fruit cheese  


<<<PAGE 5>>>
52[4.1.2.6 Fruit-based spreads (e.g. chutney) excluding products of 
food-category 4.1.2.5] 
 
4.1.2.7 Candied fruit 
4.1.2.8 Fruit preparations, including pulp, purees, fruit toppings 
and coconut milk 
4.1.2.9 Fruit-based desserts, including fruit-flavoured water-based 
 
desserts 
4.1.2.10 Fermented fruit products 
4.1.2.11 Fruit fillings for pastries 
4.1.2.12 Cooked fruit 
4.2 Vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and 
legumes, and aloevera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
 
4.2.1 Fresh vegetables, (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds and nuts and seeds 
 
4.2.1.1 Untreated fresh vegetables, (including mushrooms and 
fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes including 
soybeans, and aloe vera), seaweeds and nuts and seeds 
 
4.2.1.2 Surface-treated fresh vegetables, (including mushrooms 
and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe 
vera), seaweeds and nuts and seeds 
 
52[4.2.1.3 Peeled, cut or shredded minimally processed vegetables 
[(including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, fresh 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera) sea weeds, nuts and 
seeds]] 
 
4.2.2 Processed vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 


<<<PAGE 6>>>
 
4.2.2.1 Frozen vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots 
and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds 
and nuts and seeds 
 
4.2.2.2 Dried vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots 
and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, 
and nuts and seeds 
 
4.2.2.3 Vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and 
tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), and seaweeds in 
vinegar, oil, brine, or soybean sauce 
 
4.2.2.4 Canned or bottled (pasteurized) or retort pouch vegetables 
(including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses 
and legumes, and aloevera), and seaweeds 
 
4.2.2.5 Vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and 
tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweed, and 
nut and seed purees and spreads (e.g. peanut butter) 
 
4.2.2.6 Vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and 
tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweed, and 
nut and seed pulps and preparations (e.g. vegetable desserts 
and sauces, candied vegetables) other than food category 
4.2.2.5 
 
4.2.2.7 Fermented vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, 
roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera) and 
seaweed products, excluding fermented soybean products of 
food categories 6.8.6, 06.8.7, 12.9.1, 12.9.2.1 and 12.9.2.3 
 
4.2.2.8 Cooked or fried vegetables (including mushrooms and 
fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), 
and seaweeds 
 
5.0 Confectionery 
 


<<<PAGE 7>>>
5.1 Cocoa products and chocolate products including imitations and chocolate 
substitutes 
 
5.1.1 Cocoa mixes (powders) and cocoa mass/cake 
 
5.1.2 Cocoa mixes (syrups) 
 
5.1.3 Cocoa and chocolate products 
 
5.1.4 Imitation chocolate, chocolate substitute products 
 
5.2 Confectionery including hard and soft candy, nougats, etc. other than food 
categories 5.1,5.3, and 5.4 
 
5.2.1 Hard candy 
 
5.2.2 Soft candy 
 
5.2.3 Nougats and marzipans 
 
5.3 Chewing gum 
 
5.4 Decorations (e.g. for fine bakery wares), toppings (non-fruit), and sweet sauces 
 
6.0 Cereals and cereal products, derived from cereal grains, from roots and 
tubers, pulses, legumes and pith or soft core of palm tree, excluding bakery 
wares of food category 7.0 
 
6.1 Whole, broken, or flaked grain, including rice 
 
6.2 Flours and starches (including soybean powder) 
6.2.1 Flours 
 
6.2.2 Starches 
 
6.3 Breakfast cereals, including rolled oats 
 


<<<PAGE 8>>>
6.4 Pastas and noodles and like products  
 
6.4.1 Fresh pastas and noodles and like products 
 
6.4.2 Dried pastas and noodles and like products 
 
6.4.3 Pre-cooked pastas and noodles and like products 
 
6.5 Cereal and starch based desserts  
 
6.6 Batters  
 
6.7 Pre-cooked or processed cereal/grain/legume products 
 
6.8 Soybean products (excluding soybean-based seasonings and condiments of food 
category12.9) 
 
6.8.1 Soybean-based beverages 
 
6.8.2 Soybean-based beverage film 
 
6.8.3 Soybean curd (tofu) 
 
6.8.4 Semi-dehydrated soybean curd 
 
6.8.4.1 Thick gravy-stewed semi-dehydrated soybean curd 
 
6.8.4.2 Deep fried semi-dehydrated soybean curd 
 
6.8.4.3Semi-dehydrated soybean curd, other than food categories 
6.8.4.1 and 6.8.4.2 
 
6.8.5 Dehydrated soybean curd  
 
6.8.6 Fermented soybeans  
 
6.8.7 Fermented soybean curd 
 


<<<PAGE 9>>>
6.8.8 Other soybean protein products 
 
7.0 Bakery wares 
 
7.1 Bread and ordinary bakery wares and mixes 
 
7.1.1 Breads and rolls 
 
7.1.1.1 Yeast-leavened breads and specialty breads 
 
7.1.1.2 Soda breads 
 
7.1.2 Crackers 
 
7.1.3 Other ordinary bakery products  
 
7.1.4 Bread-type products, including bread stuffing and bread crumbs 
 
7.1.5 Steamed breads and buns 
 
7.1.6 Mixes for bread and ordinary bakery wares 
 
7.2 Fine bakery wares (sweet, salty, savoury) and mixes 
 
7.2.1 Cakes, cookies and pies  
 
7.2.2 Other fine bakery products  
 
7.2.3 Mixes for fine bakery wares  
 
8.0 Meat and meat products including poultry  
 
8.1 Fresh meat and poultry,  
 
8.1.1 Fresh meat and poultry whole pieces or cuts 
 
8.1.2 Fresh meat and poultry comminuted 
 


<<<PAGE 10>>>
8.2 Processed meat and poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
 
8.2.1 Non-heat treated processed meat and poultry products in whole pieces or 
cuts 
 
8.2.1.1 Cured (including salted) non-heat treated processed meat 
and poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
 
8.2.1.2 Cured (including salted) and dried non-heat treated 
processed meat and poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
 
8.2.1.3 Fermented non-heat treated processed meat and poultry 
products in whole pieces or cuts 
 
8.2.2 Heat-treated processed meat and poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
 
1.2.3 77[Frozen raw, flavoured/marinated, processed meat and poultry products 
in whole pieces or cuts] 
 
8.3 Processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
 
8.3.1 Non-heat treated processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
 
8.3.1.1 Cured (including salted) non-heat treated processed 
comminuted meat and poultry products 
 
8.3.1.2 Cured (including salted) and dried non-heat treated 
processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
 
8.3.1.3 Fermented non-heat treated processed comminuted meat 
and poultry products 
 
8.3.2 Heat-treated processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
 
8.3.3 Frozen processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
 
8.4 Edible casings  
 


<<<PAGE 11>>>
9.0 Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.1 Fresh fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.1.1 Fresh fish 
 
9.1.2 Fresh molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.2 Processed fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms 
 
9.2.1 Frozen fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
09.2.2 Frozen battered fish, fish fillets and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.2.3 Frozen minced and creamed fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.2.4 Cooked and/or fried fish and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.2.4.1 Cooked fish and fish products 
 
9.2.4.2 Cooked molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.2.4.3 Fried fish and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and Echinoderms 
 
9.2.5 Smoked, dried, fermented, and/or salted fish and fish products, including 
molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
9.3 Semi-preserved fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms 
 
9.3.1 Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms, marinated and/or in jelly 


<<<PAGE 12>>>
 
9.3.2 Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans and echinoderms, 
pickled and/or in brine 
 
9.3.3 Salmon substitutes, caviar and other fish roe products 
 
9.3.4 Semi-preserved fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans 
and echinoderms (e.g. fish paste), excluding products of food categories 
9.3.1 - 9.3.3 
 
9.4 Fully preserved, including canned or fermented fish and fish products, including 
molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
 
 
10.0 Eggs and egg products 
 
10.1 Fresh eggs 
 
10.2 Egg products 
 
10.2.1 Liquid egg products 
 
10.2.2 Frozen egg products 
 
10.2.3 Dried and/or heat coagulated egg products 
 
10.3 Preserved eggs, including alkaline, salted, and canned eggs 
 
10.4 Egg-based desserts  
 
11.0 Sweeteners, including honey 
 
11.1 Refined and raw sugars 
 
11.1.1 White sugar, dextrose anhydrous, dextrose monohydrate, fructose 
 
11.1.2 Powdered sugar, powdered dextrose 
 


<<<PAGE 13>>>
11.1.3 Soft white sugar, soft brown sugar, glucose syrup, dried glucose syrup, 
raw cane sugar 
 
11.1.3.1 Dried glucose syrup used to manufacture sugar 
confectionery 
 
11.1.3.2 Glucose syrup used to manufacture sugar confectionery 
 
11.1.4 Lactose 
 
11.1.5 Plantation or mill white sugar 
52[11.1.6 Gur or Jaggery 
 
11.1.6.1 Cane Jaggery or Gur 
 
11.1.6.2 Palm Jaggery or Gur 
 
11.1.6.3 Date Jaggery or Gur] 
 
11.2 Brown sugar excluding products of food category 11.1.3 
 
11.3 Sugar solutions and syrups, also (partially) inverted, including treacle and 
molasses, excluding products of food category 11.1.3 
11.4 Other sugars and syrups 11.5 Honey 
 
11.6 Table-top sweeteners, including those containing high-intensity sweeteners 
 
12.0 Salts, spices, soups, sauces, salads and protein products 
 
12.1 Salt and salt substitutes 
 
12.1.1 Salt 
 
12.1.2 Salt substitutes 
 
12.2 Herbs, spices, seasonings, and condiments  
 
52[12.2.1 Herbs, spices, masalas, spice mixtures including oleoresins or 
extracts/derivatives thereof] 
 
12.2.2 Seasonings and condiments 


<<<PAGE 14>>>
 
12.3 Vinegars 
 
12.4 Mustards 
 
12.5 Soups and broths 
 
12.5.1 Ready-to-eat soups and broths, including canned, bottled, and frozen 
 
12.5.2 Mixes for soups and broths 
 
12.6 Sauces and like products 
 
12.6.1 Emulsified sauces and dips  
 
12.6.2 Non-emulsified sauces  
 
12.6.3 Mixes for sauces and gravies 
 
12.6.4 Clear sauces  
 
12.7 Salads and sandwich spreads excluding cocoa-and nut based spreads of food 
categories 4.2.2.5 and 5.1.3 
 
12.8 Yeast and like products 
 
12.9 Soybean-based seasonings and condiments 
 
12.9.1 Fermented soybean paste  
12.9.2 Soybean sauce 
 
12.9.2.1 Fermented soybean sauce 
 
12.9.2.2 Non-fermented soybean sauce 
 
12.9.2.3 Other soybean sauces 
 


<<<PAGE 15>>>
12.10 Protein products other than from soybeans 
 
 
13.0 Foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses 
 
13.1 Infant formulae, follow-on formulae, and formulae for special medical purposes 
for infants 
 
                13.1.1 Infant formulae 
 
                13.1.2 Follow-up formulae 
 
                13.1.3 Formulae for special medical purposes for infants 
 
13.2 Complementary foods for infants and young children 
 
13.3 Dietetic foods intended for special medical purposes (excluding products of 
food category 13.1) 
 
13.4 Dietetic formulae for slimming purposes and weight reduction 
 
13.5 Dietetic foods (e.g. supplementary foods for dietary use) excluding products of 
food categories13.1- 13.4 and 13.6 
 
13.6 Food supplements 
 
14.0 Beverages, excluding dairy products 
 
14.1 Non-alcoholic ("soft") beverages 
 
14.1.1 Waters 
 
14.1.1.1 Natural mineral waters and source waters 
14.1.1.2 Table waters and soda waters 
 
14.1.2 Fruit and vegetable juices 
 


<<<PAGE 16>>>
14.1.2.1 Fruit juices 
 
14.1.2.2 Vegetable juices 
 
14.1.2.3 Concentrates of fruit juices 
 
14.1.2.4 Concentrates of vegetable juices 
 
14.1.3 Fruit and vegetable nectars 
 
14.1.3.1 Fruit nectar 
 
14.1.3.2 Vegetable nectar 
 
14.1.3.3 Concentrates of fruit nectar 
 
14.1.3.4 Concentrates of vegetable nectar 
 
14.1.4 Water-based flavoured drinks, including "sport," “energy,” or 
"electrolyte" drinks and articulated drinks 
 
14.1.4.1 Carbonated water-based flavoured drinks 
 
14.1.4.2 Non-carbonated water-based flavoured drinks, including 
punches and ades 
 
14.1.4.3 Concentrates (liquid or solid) for water-based flavoured 
drinks 
 
14.1.5 Coffee, coffee substitutes, tea, herbal infusions, and other hot cereal and 
grain beverages, excluding cocoa 
 
14.2 Alcoholic beverages, including alcohol-free and low-alcoholic counterparts 
 
14.2.1 Beer and malt beverages 
 
14.2.2 Cider and Perry 
 


<<<PAGE 17>>>
14.2.3 Grape wines 
 
14.2.3.1 Still grape wine 
 
14.2.3.2 Sparkling and semi-sparkling grape wines 
 
14.2.3.3 Fortified grape wine, grape liquor wine, and sweet grape 
wine 
 
14.2.4 Wines (other than grape) 
 
14.2.5 Mead 
 
14.2.6 Distilled spirituous beverages containing more than 15% alcohol 
 
14.2.7 Aromatized alcoholic beverages  
 
15.0 Ready-to-eat savouries 
 
15.1 Snacks - potato, cereal, flour or starch based (from roots and tubers, pulses and 
legumes) 
 
15.2 Processed nuts, including coated nuts and nut mixtures 15.3 Snacks - fish based 
 


<<<PAGE 18>>>
II. FOOD CATEGORY DESCRIPTIONS 
 
The examples wherever given below are only indicative and not exhaustive. 
 
1.0 Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of food category 2.0 
Includes all types of dairy products that are derived from the milk of healthy milch 
animal(s) (e.g. cow, sheep, goat, and buffalo). In this category, a “plain” product is 
one that is not flavoured, nor contains fruit, vegetables or other non-dairy 
ingredients, nor is mixed with other non-dairy ingredients, unless permitted by 
relevant standards. Analogues are products in which milk fat has been partially or 
wholly replaced by vegetable fats or oils. 
 
1.1 Milk and dairy-based drinks 
Includes all plain and flavoured fluid milk products based on skim, part-skim, low-fat 
and whole milk. 
 
1.1.1 Milk and buttermilk (plain) 
Includes plain fluid products only. Includes reconstituted plain milk that contains 
only dairy ingredients. 
 
1.1.1.1 Milk (plain) 
Fluid milk obtained from milking animals (e.g. cows, sheep, goats, and buffalo). 
Milk is usually heat-treated by pasteurization, ultra-high temperature (UHT) 
treatment or sterilization. Includes skim, part-skim, low-fat and whole milk. 
 
1.1.1.2 Buttermilk (plain) 
Buttermilk is the nearly milk fat-free fluid remaining from the butter-making process 
(i.e. the churning fermented or non-fermented milk and cream) and buttermilk is also 
produced by fermentation of fluid skim milk, either by spontaneous souring by the 
action of lactic acid-forming or aroma-forming bacteria, or by inoculation of heated 
milk with pure bacterial cultures (cultured buttermilk). Buttermilk may be 
pasteurized or sterilized. 
 
52[1.1.2 
Dairy-based drinks, flavoured or fermented 
Includes all ready-to-drink flavoured and aromatised milk-based fluid beverages and 
their mixes, excluding mixes for cocoa (cocoa-sugar mixtures, category 5.1.1) such 
as hot chocolate, chocolate malt drinks, strawberry-flavoured yoghurt drink, whey 
based drinks, lactic acid bacteria drinks, and lassi (liquid obtained by whipping curd 


<<<PAGE 19>>>
from the lactic acid fermentation of milk, and mixing with sugar or synthetic 
sweetener)] 
 
1.2 
Fermented and renneted milk products (plain), excluding food category 
1.1.2 dairy-based drinks) 
Includes all plain products based on skim, part-skim, low-fat and whole milk. 
Flavoured products are included in 1.1.2 (beverages) and 1.7 (desserts). 
 
1.2.1 
Fermented milks (plain) 
Includes all plain products, including fluid fermented milk, acidified milk and 
cultured milk. Plain yoghurt, which does not contain flavours or colours, may be 
found in one of the sub-categories of 1.2.1 depending on whether it is heat-treated 
after fermentation or not. 
 
1.2.1.1 Fermented milks (plain), not heat-treated after fermentation 
Includes fluid and non-fluid plain products such as yoghurt. 
 
1.2.1.2 Fermented milks (plain), heat-treated after fermentation 
Products similar to that in 1.2.1.1 except those heat-treated (e.g. sterilized or 
pasteurized) after fermentation. 
 
1.2.2 
Renneted milk (plain) 
Plain, coagulated milk produced by the action of milk coagulating enzymes which 
includes curdled milk. Flavoured - renneted milk products are found in category 1.7. 
 
1.3 
Condensed milk and analogues (plain) 
Includes plain and sweetened types of condensed milk, evaporated milk, and their 
analogues (including beverage whiteners) and products based on skim, part-skim, 
low-fat and whole milk, blends of evaporated skimmed milk and vegetable fat, and 
blends of sweetened condensed skimmed milk and vegetable fat. 
 
1.3.1 Condensed milk (plain) 
Condensed milk is obtained by partial removal of water from milk to which sugar 
may have been added. For evaporated milk, the water removal may be accomplished 
by heating. Includes partially dehydrated milk, evaporated milk, sweetened 
condensed milk, and khoya (cow or buffalo milk concentrated by boiling). 
 
1.3.2 Beverage whiteners 


<<<PAGE 20>>>
 
1.3.2.1 52[Omitted]  
 
1.3.2.2 Non-Dairy based beverage whitener 
Milk or cream substitute consisting of a vegetable fat-water emulsion in water with 
milk protein and lactose or vegetable proteins for use in beverages such as coffee and 
tea and includes the same type of products in powdered form. Includes condensed 
milk analogues, blends of evaporated skimmed milk and vegetable fat and blends of 
sweetened condensed skimmed milk and vegetable fat. 
 
1.4 Cream (plain) and the like 
Cream is a fluid dairy product, relatively high in fat content in comparison to milk. 
Includes all plain fluid, semi-fluid and semi-solid cream and cream analogue 
products. Flavoured cream products are found in1.1.2 (beverages) and 1.7 (desserts). 
 
1.4.1 Pasteurized cream (plain) 
Cream subjected to pasteurization by appropriate heat treatment or made from 
pasteurized milk. Includes milk cream and “half-and-half.” 
 
1.4.2 Sterilized and UHT creams, whipping and whipped creams, and reduced 
fat creams (plain) 
Includes every cream, regardless of fat content, which has undergone a higher heat-
treatment than pasteurization, pasteurized creams with a reduced fat content, as well 
as every cream intended for whipping or being whipped. Sterilized cream is 
subjected to appropriate heat-treatment in the container in which it is presented to the 
consumer. Ultra-heat treated (UHT) or ultra-pasteurized cream is subjected to the 
appropriate heat treatment (UHT or ultra-pasteurization) in a continuous flow process 
and aseptically packaged. Cream may also be packaged under pressure (whipped 
cream). Includes whipping cream, heavy cream, whipped pasteurized cream, and 
whipped cream-type dairy toppings and fillings. Creams or toppings with partial or 
total replacement of milk fat by other fats are included in sub-category 1.4.4 (cream 
analogues). 
 
1.4.3 Clotted cream (plain) 
Thickened, viscous cream formed from the action of milk coagulating enzymes. 
Includes sour cream (cream subjected to lactic acid fermentation achieved as 
described for buttermilk (1.1.1.2). 
 


<<<PAGE 21>>>
1.4.4 Cream analogues 
Cream substitute consisting of a vegetable fat-water emulsion in liquid or powdered 
form for use other than as a beverage whitener (1.3.2).Includes instant whipped 
cream toppings and sour cream substitutes. 
 
1.5 Milk powder and cream powder and powder analogues (plain) 
Includes plain milk powders, cream powders, or combination of the two, and their 
analogues. Includes products based on skim, part-skim, low-fat and whole milk. 
 
1.5.1 Milk powder and cream powder (plain) 
Milk products obtained by partial removal of water from milk or cream and produced 
in a powdered form. Includes casein and caseinates. 
 
52[1.5.1.1 Dairy based dairy whitener 
Milk or cream constituting of milk protein and lactose] 
 
1.5.2 Milk and cream powder analogues 
Products based on a fat-water emulsion and dried for use other than as a beverage 
whitener (1.3.2). Examples include imitation dry cream mix and blends of skimmed 
milk and vegetable fat in powdered form. 
 
1.6 Cheese and analogues 
Cheese and cheese analogues are products that have water and fat included within a 
coagulated milk protein structure. Products such as cheese sauce (12.6.2), cheese-
flavoured snacks (15.1), and composite prepared foods containing cheese as an 
ingredient (e.g. macaroni and cheese; 16.0) are categorized elsewhere. 
 
1.6.1 Unripened cheese 
Unripened cheese, including fresh cheese, is ready for consumption soon after 
manufacture. Such as cottage cheese (a soft, unripened, coagulated curd cheese), 
creamed cottage cheese (cottage cheese covered with a creaming mixture), cream 
cheese (rahmfrischkase, an uncured, soft spreadable cheese) mozzarella and 
scamorza cheeses and paneer (milk protein coagulated by the addition of citric acid 
from lemon or lime juice or of lactic acid from whey, that is strained into a solid 
mass, and is used in vegetarian versions of, e.g. hamburgers). Includes the whole 
unripened cheese and unripened cheese rind (for those unripened cheeses with a 
“skin” such as mozzarella). Most products are plain, however, some such as cottage 
cheese and cream cheese, may be flavoured or contain ingredients such as fruit, 


<<<PAGE 22>>>
vegetables or meat. Excludes ripened cream cheese, where cream is a qualifier for a 
high fat content. 
 
1.6.2 Ripened cheese 
Ripened cheese is not ready for consumption soon after manufacture, but is held 
under such time and temperature conditions so as to allow the necessary biochemical 
and physical changes that characterize the specific cheese. For mould-ripened cheese, 
the ripening is accomplished primarily by the development of characteristic mould 
growth throughout the interior and/or on the surface of the cheese. Ripened cheese 
may be soft (e.g. camembert), firm (e.g. edam, gouda), hard (e.g. cheddar), or extra-
hard and includes cheese in brine, which is a ripened semi-hard to soft cheese, white 
to yellowish in colour with a compact texture, and Without actual rind that has been 
preserved in brine until presented to the consumer. 
 
1.6.2.1 Ripened cheese, includes rind 
Refers to ripened (including mould-ripened) cheese, including rind, or any part 
thereof, such as cut, shredded, grated or sliced cheesesuch as blue cheese, brie, 
gouda, havarti, hard grating cheese, and Swiss cheese. 
 
1.6.2.2 Rind of ripened cheese 
Refers to the rind only of the cheese and the rind of the cheese is the exterior portion 
of the cheese mass that initially has the same composition as the interior portion of 
the cheese, but which may dry after brining and ripening. 
 
1.6.2.3 Cheese powder  
Dehydrated product prepared from a variety or processed cheese. Does not include 
grated or shredded cheese (1.6.2.1 for variety cheese; 1.6.4 for processed cheese). 
Product is intended either to be reconstituted with milk or water to prepare a sauce, 
or used as-is as an ingredient (e.g. with cooked macaroni, milk and butter to prepare 
a macaroni and cheese casserole). Includes spray-dried cheese. 
 
1.6.3 Whey cheese 
A solid or semi-solid product obtained by concentration of whey with or without the 
addition of milk, cream or other materials of milk origin and moulding of the 
concentrated product which includes the whole cheese and the rind of the cheese and 
it is different from whey protein cheese (1.6.6). 
 
1.6.4 Processed cheese 


<<<PAGE 23>>>
Product with a very long shelf life obtained by melting and emulsifying cheese which 
includes products manufactured by heating and emulsifying mixtures of cheese, milk 
fat, milk protein, milk powder, and water indifferent amounts. Products may contain 
other added ingredients, such as aromas, seasonings and fruit, vegetables and/or 
meat. Product may be spreadable or cut into slices and pieces. The term “processed” 
does not mean cutting, grating, shredding, etc. of cheese. Cheeses treated by these 
mechanical processes are included under food category 1.6.2 (Ripened cheese). 
 
1.6.4.1 Plain processed cheese 
Processed cheese product that does not contain added flavours, seasonings, fruit, 
vegetables and/or meat. Examples include American cheese, Requeson etc. 
 
1.6.4.2 Flavoured processed cheese, including containing fruit, vegetables, meat, 
etc. 
Processed cheese product that contains added flavours, seasonings, fruit, vegetables 
and/or meat such asNeufchatel cheese spread with vegetables, pepper jack cheese, 
cheddar cheese spread with wine, and cheese balls (formed processed cheese coated 
in nuts, herbs or spices). 
 
1.6.5 Cheese analogues 
Products that look like cheese, but in which milk fat has been partly or completely 
replaced by other fats which includes imitation cheese, imitation cheese mixes, and 
imitation cheese powders. 
 
1.6.6 Whey protein cheese 
Product containing the protein extracted from the whey component of milk. These 
products are principally made by coagulation of whey proteins. Example: ricotta 
cheese. It is different from whey cheese (1.6.3). 
 
1.7 Dairy-based desserts  
Includes ready-to-eat flavoured dairy dessert products and dessert mixes, frozen 
dairy confections and novelties, and dairy-based fillings. Includes flavoured yoghurt 
(a milk product obtained by fermentation of milk and milk products to which 
flavours and ingredients (e.g. fruit, cocoa, coffee) have been added) that may or may 
not be heat-treated after fermentation. Other examples include ice cream (frozen 
dessert that may contain whole milk, skim milk products, cream or butter, sugar, 
vegetable oil, egg products, and fruit,cocoa, or coffee), ice milk (product similar to 
ice cream with reduced whole or skim milk content, or made with non-fat milk), 


<<<PAGE 24>>>
jellied milk, frozen flavoured yoghurt, junket (sweet custard-like dessert made from 
flavoured milk set with rennet), dulce de leche (cooked milk with sugar and added 
ingredients such as coconut or chocolate),butterscotch pudding and chocolate 
mousse. Includes traditional milk-based sweets prepared from milk concentrated 
partially, from khoya (cow or buffalo milk concentrated by boiling), or chhena(cow 
or buffalo milk, heat coagulated aided by acids like citric acid, lactic acid, malic acid, 
etc), sugar orsynthetic sweetener, and other ingredients (e.g. maida (refined wheat 
flour), flavours and colours (e.g. peda,burfee, milk cake, gulab jamun, rasgulla, 
rasmalai, basundi). These products are different from those in food category3.0 
(edible ices, including sherbet and sorbet) in that the foods in category 1.7 are dairy-
based, while those in 3.0 are water-based and contain no dairy ingredients. 
 
1.8 Whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses 
Includes a variety of whey-based products in liquid and powdered forms. 
 
1.8.1 Liquid whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses 
Whey is the fluid separated from the curd after coagulation of milk, cream, skimmed 
milk or buttermilk with milk coagulating enzymes during the manufacture of cheese, 
casein or similar products. Acid whey is obtained after the coagulation of milk, 
cream, skimmed milk or buttermilk, mainly with acids of the type used for the 
manufacture of fresh cheese. 
 
1.8.2 Dried whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses 
Whey powders are prepared by spray- or roller-drying whey or acid whey from 
which the major portion of the milk fat has been removed. 
 
2.0 Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Includes all fat-based products that are derived from vegetable, animal or marine 
sources, or their mixtures. 
 
2.1 Fats and oils essentially free from water 
Edible fats and oils are foods composed mainly of triglycerides of fatty acids from 
vegetable, animal or marine sources. 
 
2.1.1 Butter oil, anhydrous milk fat, ghee 
The milk fat products anhydrous milk fat, anhydrous butter oil and butter oil are 
products derived exclusively from milk and/or products obtained from milk by a 
process that almost completely removes water and non-fat solids. Ghee is a product 


<<<PAGE 25>>>
obtained exclusively from milk, cream or butter by a process that almost completely 
removes water and non-fat solids; it has a specially developed flavour and physical 
structure. 
 
2.1.2 Vegetable oils and fats 
Edible fats and oils obtained from edible plant sources. Products may be from a 
single plant source or marketed and used as blended oils that are generally designated 
as edible, cooking, frying, table or salad oils. Virgin oils are obtained by mechanical 
means (e.g. pressing or expelling), with application of heat only so as not to alter the 
natural composition of the oil. Virgin oils are suitable for consumption in the natural 
state. Cold pressed oils are obtained by mechanical means without application of 
heat. Examples include virgin olive oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, and vanaspati. 
 
2.1.3 Lard, tallow, fish oil, and other animal fats 
All animal fats and oils should be derived from animals in good health at the time of 
slaughter and intended for human consumption.  
 
2.2 Fat emulsions mainly of type water-in-oil 
Include all emulsified products excluding fat-based counterparts of dairy products 
and dairy desserts. 
 
2.2.1 Butter 
Butter is a fatty product consisting of a primarily water-in-oil emulsion derived 
exclusively from milk or products obtained from milk or both. 
 
2.2.2 Fat spreads, dairy fat spreads and blended spreads 
Includes fat spreads (emulsions principally of the type water and edible fats and oils), 
dairy fat spreads (emulsions principally of the type water-in-milk fat), and blended 
spreads (fat spreads blended with higher amounts of milk fat)such as margarine (a 
spreadable or fluid water-in-oil emulsion produced mainly from edible fats and oils); 
products derived from butter (e.g. “butterine,” a spreadable butter blend with 
vegetable oils), blends of butter and margarine; and minarine (a spreadable water-in-
oil emulsion produced principally from water and edible fats and oils that are not 
solely derived from milk). Also includes reduced fat-based products derived from 
milk fat or from animal or vegetable fats, including reduced-fat counterparts of 
butter, margarine, and their mixtures. 
 


<<<PAGE 26>>>
2.3 Fat emulsions mainly of type oil-in-water, including mixed and/or flavoured 
products based on fat emulsions 
Includes fat-based counterparts of dairy-based foods excluding dessert products. The 
fat portion of these products are derived from sources other than milk fat (e.g. 
vegetable fats and oils) such as imitation milk (a fat-substituted milk produced from 
non-fat milk solids by addition of vegetable fats (coconut, safflower or corn oil)); 
non-dairy whipped cream; non-dairy toppings; and vegetable cream. Mayonnaise is 
included in food category 12.6.1. 
 
2.4 Fat-based desserts excluding dairy-based dessert products of food category 
1.7 
Includes fat-based counterparts of dairy-based desserts, which are found in category 
1.7. Includes ready-to-eat products and their mixes, cocoa based spreads including 
fillings. Also includes non-dairy fillings for desserts. Examples include ice cream-
like products made with vegetable fats 
 
3.0 Edible ices, including sherbet and sorbet 
This category includes water-based frozen desserts, confections and novelties, such 
as fruit sorbet, and flavoured ice. Frozen desserts containing primarily dairy 
ingredients are included in food category1.7. 
 
4.0 Fruits and vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
This major category is divided into two categories: 4.1(Fruit) and 4.2 (Vegetables 
(including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe 
vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds). Each of these categories is further divided into 
sub-categories for fresh and processed products. 
 
4.1 Fruits 
Includes all fresh (4.1.1) and processed (4.1.2) products. 
 
4.1.1 Fresh fruits 
Fresh fruit is generally free of additives.  
 
4.1.1.1 Untreated fresh fruits 
Raw fruit presented fresh from harvest. 
 
4.1.1.2 Surface-treated fresh fruits 


<<<PAGE 27>>>
The surfaces of certain fresh fruit are coated with glazes or waxes or are treated with 
other food additives that act as protective coatings and/or help to preserve the 
freshness and quality of the fruit such as apples, oranges, dates, and longans. 
 
52[4.1.1.3 Peeled or cut, minimally processed fruit] 
Fresh fruit that is cut or peeled and presented to the consumer, e.g. in a fruit salad 
and includes fresh shredded or flaked coconut. 
 
4.1.2 Processed fruits 
Includes all forms of processing other than peeling, cutting and surface treating fresh 
fruits. 
 
4.1.2.1 Frozen fruits 
Fruits that may or may not be blanched prior to freezing. The product may be frozen 
in a juice or sugar syrup. Such as frozen fruit salad and frozen strawberries. 
 
4.1.2.2 Dried fruits, nuts and seeds 
Fruit from which water is removed to prevent microbial growth which includes dried 
fruit leathers (fruit rolls) prepared by drying fruit purees. Such as cashew nut, 
almond, raisins, dried apple slices, figs, copra (dried coconut whole or cut), dried 
shredded or flaked coconut, prunes, dehydrated fruits etc. 
 
4.1.2.3 Fruits in vinegar, oil, or brine 
Includes pickled products such as mango pickles, lime pickles, pickled gooseberries, 
plums and pickled watermelon rind. Oriental pickled (“cured” or “preserved”) fruit 
products are sometimes referred to as “candied” fruits. These are not the candied fruit 
products of category 4.1.2.7 (i.e. dried, sugar coated fruits). 
 
4.1.2.4 Canned or bottled (pasteurized) fruits 
Fully preserved product in which fresh fruit is cleaned and placed in cans or jars with 
natural juice or sugar syrup (including artificially sweetened syrup) and heat-
sterilized or pasteurized. Includes products processed in retort pouches such as 
canned fruit salad, and applesauce in jars. 
 
4.1.2.5 Jams, jellies, marmalades 
Jams, preserves and conserves are thick, spreadable products prepared by boiling 
whole fruit or pieces of fruit, fruit pulp or puree, with or without fruit juice or 
concentrated fruit juice, and sugar to thicken, and to which pectin and fruit pieces 


<<<PAGE 28>>>
may be added. Jelly is a clear spreadable product prepared similarly to jam, except 
that it is has a smoother consistency and does not contain fruit pieces. Marmalade is a 
thick spreadable fruit slurry prepared from whole fruit, fruit pulp or puree (usually 
citrus), and boiled with sugar to thicken, to which pectin and fruit pieces and fruit 
peel pieces may be added. Includes dietetic counterparts made with non-nutritive 
high-intensity sweeteners. Examples include orange marmalade, grape jelly, and 
strawberry jam. 
 
4.1.2.6 Fruit-based spreads (e.g. chutney) excluding products of food category 
4.1.2.5 
Includes fruit based spreads, condiment-type fruit products such as mango chutney, 
raisinchutney, fruit and vegetables chutneys and their mixes (dry or paste form). 
 
4.1.2.7 Candied fruits 
Includes glazed fruits (fruits treated with a sugar solution and dried), candied fruits 
(dried glazed fruit immersed in a sugar solution and dried so that the fruit is covered 
by a candy-like sugar shell), and crystallized fruit is prepared (dried glazed fruit 
rolled in icing or granulated sugar and dried).  
 
4.1.2.8 Fruit preparations, including pulp, purees, fruit toppings and coconut 
milk 
Fruit pulp is not usually intended for direct consumption. It is slurry of lightly 
steamed and strained fresh fruit, with or without added preservatives. Fruit puree 
(e.g. mango puree, prune puree) is produced in the same way, but has a smoother, 
finer texture, and may be used as fillings for pastries, but is not limited to this use. 
Fruit sauce (e.g. pineapple sauce or strawberry sauce) is made from boiled fruit pulp 
with or without added sweeteners and may contain fruit pieces. Fruit sauce may be 
used as toppings for fine bakery wares and ice cream sundaes. Fruit syrup (e.g. 
blueberry syrup) is a more liquid form of fruit sauce that may be used as a topping 
e.g. for pancakes. Non-fruit toppings are included in category 5.4 (sugar- and 
chocolate-based toppings) and sugar syrups (e.g. maple syrup) are included in 
category 11.4. Coconut milk and coconut cream are products prepared using a 
significant amount of separated, whole, disintegrated, macerated or comminuted 
fresh endosperm (kernel) of coconut palm and expelled, where most filterable fibers 
and residues are excluded, with or without coconut water, and/or with additional 
water. Coconut milk and coconut cream are treated by heat pasteurization, 
sterilization or ultrahigh temperature (UHT) processes. Coconut milk and coconut 
cream may also be produced in concentrated or skim (or “light”) forms. Examples of 


<<<PAGE 29>>>
traditional foods in this sub-category are tamarind concentrate (clean extract of 
tamarind fruit with not less than 65% total soluble solids), tamarind powder 
(tamarind paste mixed with tapioca starch), tamarind toffee (mixture of tamarind 
pulp, sugar, milk solids, antioxidants, flavours, stabilizers and preservatives), and 
fruit bars (a mixture of fruit (mango, pineapple, or guava) pulp mixed with sugar, 
flavours and preservatives, dried into a sheet). 
 
4.1.2.9 Fruit-based desserts, including fruit-flavoured water-based desserts 
Includes ready-to-eat products and mixes. Includes rote gruze, frutgrod, fruit 
compote, nata de coco, and mitsumame (desserts of agar jelly, fruit pieces and syrup) 
etc. This category does not include fine bakery wares containing fruit (categories 
7.2.1 and 7.2.2), fruit-flavoured edible ices (category 3.0), or fruit-containing frozen 
dairy desserts (category 1.7). 
 
4.1.2.10 Fermented fruit products 
Type of pickled product produced by preservation in salt by lactic acid fermentation. 
Examples include fermented plums, amla/mango pickles etc. 
 
4.1.2.11 Fruit fillings for pastries 
Includes ready-to-eat products and mixes and all type of fillings excluding purees 
(category4.1.2.8). These fillings usually include whole fruit or fruit pieces such as 
cherry pie filling and raisin filling for oatmeal cookies. 
 
4.1.2.12 Cooked fruits 
Fruit that is steamed, boiled, baked, or fried, with or without a coating, for 
presentation to the consumer such as baked apples, fried apple rings, and peach 
dumplings (baked peaches with a sweet dough covering). 
 
4.2 Vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and 
legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
Includes all fresh (4.2.1) and processed (4.2.2) products. 
 
4.2.1 Fresh vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses 
and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
Fresh vegetables are generally free of additives.  
 


<<<PAGE 30>>>
4.2.1.1 Untreated fresh vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and 
tubers, pulses and legumes (including soybeans), and aloe vera), seaweeds, and 
nuts and seeds 
Raw vegetables presented fresh from harvest. 
 
4.2.1.2 Surface-treated fresh vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots 
and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
The surfaces of certain fresh vegetables are coated with glazes or waxes or are 
treated with other food additives that act as protective coatings and/or help to 
preserve the freshness and quality of the vegetable such as avocados, cucumbers, 
green peppers and pistachio nuts. 
 
52[4.2.1.3 Peeled, cut or shredded minimally processed vegetables [(including 
mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, fresh pulses and legumes, and aloevera) 
sea weeds, nuts and seeds] 
Fresh vegetables, e.g. peeled raw potatoes that are presented to the consumer to be 
cooked at home (e.g.in the preparation of hash brown potatoes). 
 
 
4.2.2 Processed vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
Includes all forms of processing other than peeling, cutting and surface treating of 
fresh vegetables. 
 
4.2.2.1 Frozen vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
Fresh vegetables are usually blanched and frozen. Examples include quick-frozen 
corn, quick-frozen French-fried potatoes, quick frozen peas, and quick frozen whole 
processed tomatoes. 
 
4.2.2.2 Dried vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
Products in which the natural water content has been reduced below that critical for 
growth of microorganismswithout affecting the important nutrients. The product may 
or may not be intended for rehydration prior to consumption. Includes vegetable 
powders that are obtained from drying the juice, such as tomato powder and beet 
powder etc such as dried potato flakes, dehydrated carrots or peas or cabbage or 
mushroom or spinach leaf or lentil etc. 


<<<PAGE 31>>>
 
4.2.2.3 Vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and 
legumes, and aloe vera) and seaweeds in vinegar, oil, brine, or soybean sauce 
Products prepared by treating raw vegetables with salt solution excluding fermented 
soybean products. Fermented vegetables, which are a type of pickled product, are 
classified in4.2.2.7. Fermented soybean products are classified in 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 12.9.1, 
12.9.2.1 and 12.9.2.3 such as pickled cabbage, pickled cucumber, olives, pickled 
onions, mushrooms in oil, marinated artichoke hearts, acharetc. Other examples 
include pickled ginger, pickled garlic, and chilli pickles etc. 
 
4.2.2.4 Canned or bottled (pasteurized) or retort pouch vegetables (including 
mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), and 
seaweeds 
77[Fully preserved product in which fresh vegetables are cleaned, blanched, and 
placed in cans or jars in liquid (e.g. brine, water, oil or sauce), and heat-sterilized or 
pasteurized such as canned peas, canned baby corn, asparagus packed in glass jars, 
canned and/or cooked/baked beans, canned tomato paste/ puree and canned tomatoes 
(pieces, wedges or whole), canned mushrooms, canned chestnuts etc.] 
 
4.2.2.5 Vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and 
legumes, and aloe vera), seaweed, and nut and seed purees and spreads (e.g. 
peanut butter) 
Vegetable purees are finely dispersed slurries prepared from the concentration of 
vegetables, which may have been previously heat-treated (e.g. steamed). The slurries 
may be filtered prior to packaging. Purees contain lower amounts of solids than 
pastes (found in category 4.2.2.6). Examples include tomato puree, peanut butter (a 
spreadable paste made from roasted and ground peanuts by the addition of peanut 
oil) and other nut butters (e.g. cashew butter) etc. 
 
4.2.2.6 Vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and 
legumes, and aloe vera), seaweed, and nut and seed pulps and preparations (e.g. 
vegetable desserts and sauces, candied vegetables) other than food category 
4.2.2.5 
Vegetable pastes and pulps are prepared as described for vegetable purees (category 
4.2.2.5). However, pastes and pulps have a higher amount of solids, and are usually 
used as components of other foods (e.g. sauces)such as potato pulp, horseradish pulp, 
aloe extract, salsa (e.g. chopped tomato, onion, peppers, spices and herbs), sweet red 
bean paste (an), sweet coffee bean paste (filling), tomato paste, tomato pulp, tomato 


<<<PAGE 32>>>
sauce, crystallized ginger, and bean-based vegetable dessert, sweets (vegetable 
based):- carrot halwa (gajar halwa/ gajrela), lauki halwa, coconut based sweets like 
coconut burfee, kaju based sweets etc. 
 
4.2.2.7 Fermented vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
pulses and legumes, and aloe vera) and seaweed products, excluding fermented 
soybean products of food category 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 12.9.1, 12.9.2.1 and 12.9.2.3 
Fermented vegetables are a type of pickled product, formed by the action of lactic 
acid bacteria, usually in the presence of salt. Traditional Oriental fermented 
vegetable products are prepared by air-drying vegetables and exposing them to 
ambient temperatures so as to allow the microorganisms to flourish; the vegetables 
are then sealed in an anaerobic environment and salt (to generate lactic acid), spices 
and seasonings are added such as achar, pickled cabbage or carrot or cauliflower, 
pickled cucumber, olives, pickled onions, mushrooms in oil, marinated artichoke 
hearts, piccalilli, lemon pickles, soybean sauce-pickled vegetables , vinegar-pickled 
vegetables, brine-pickled vegetables, pickled ginger, pickled garlic, and chilli 
pickles, red pepper paste, fermented vegetable products, kimchi and sauerkraut 
(fermented cabbage) etc. Excludes fermented soybean products that are found in food 
categories6.8.6 (fermented soybeans (e.g. natto and tempe), 6.8.7 (fermented soybean 
curd), 12.9.1(fermented soybean paste e.g. miso), 12.9.2.1 (fermented soybean 
sauce), and 12.9.2.3 (other soybean sauce) etc. 
 
4.2.2.8 Cooked or fried vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and 
tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera) and seaweeds 
Vegetables those are steamed, boiled, baked, or fried, with or without a coating, for 
presentation to the consumer such as simmered beans, pre-fried potatoes, fried okra, 
and ready-to-eat curries like paneer makhani, kadhaipaneer, palakpaneer, baigan-ka-
bharta, alootamatar, mixed vegetable, dal makhani, frozen curried vegetables /ready-
to-eat vegetables; vegetable gravies, vegetables boiled down in soy sauceetc. 
 
5.0 Confectionery 
Includes all cocoa and chocolate products (5.1), other confectionery products that 
may or may not contain cocoa (5.2), chewing gum (5.3), and decorations and icings 
(5.4), or foods produced solely with any combination of foods conforming to these 
sub-categories. 
 
5.1 Cocoa products and chocolate products including imitations and chocolate 
substitutes 


<<<PAGE 33>>>
This category is divided to reflect the variety of standardized and non-standardized 
cocoa- and chocolatebasedproducts. 
 
5.1.1 Cocoa mixes (powders) and cocoa mass/cake 
Includes a variety of products that are used in the manufacture of other chocolate 
products or in the preparation of cocoa-based beverages. Most cocoa products have 
their origin in the cocoa nib, which is obtained from cocoa beans that have been 
cleaned and freed from the shells. Cocoa mass is obtained from the mechanical 
disintegration of the nib. Depending on the desired finished chocolate product, the 
cocoa nib or mass may be treated by an alkalinization process that mellows the 
flavour. Cocoa dust is the fraction of the cocoa bean produced as a product during 
winnowing and degerming. Cocoa powder is produced byreducing the fat content of 
cocoa mass or liquor by pressing (including expeller pressing) and molding into 
cocoa press cake. The cocoa press cake is disintegrated and ground to cocoa powder. 
Cocoa liquor is ahomogeneous flowing paste produced from cocoa nib, which has 
been roasted, dried, disintegrated and milled. Cocoa-sugar mixtures contain only 
cocoa powder and sugar. Chocolate powder for beverages is made from cocoa liquor 
or cocoa powder and sugar etc. Examples include drinking chocolate powder; 
breakfast cocoa; cocoa dust (fines), nibs, mass, press cake; chocolate liquor; cocoa 
mixes (powders for preparing the hot beverage); cocoa-sugar mixture; and dry mixes 
for sugar-cocoa confectionery. Finished cocoa beverages and chocolate milk are 
included in category 1.1.2, and most finished chocolate products are included in 
category 5.1.4. 
 
5.1.2 Cocoa mixes (syrups) 
Products that may be produced by adding a bacterial amylase to cocoa liquor. The 
enzyme prevents the syrup from thickening or setting by solubilizing and 
dextrinizing cocoa starch. Includes products such as chocolate syrup used to prepare 
chocolate milk or hot chocolate. Chocolate syrup differs from fudge sauce (e.g. for 
ice cream sundaes), which is found in category 5.4. 
 
5.1.3 Cocoa and chocolate products 
Chocolate is produced from cocoa nibs, mass, press cake, powder, or liquor with or 
without addition of sugar, cocoa butter, aroma or flavouring substances, and optional 
ingredients (e.g. nuts). This category is for chocolate as defined in these regulations, 
and for confectionery that uses chocolate that meets the standard and may contain 
other ingredients, for example chocolate-covered nuts and fruit (e.g. raisins). This 
category includes only the chocolate portion of any confectionery within the scope of 


<<<PAGE 34>>>
food category 5.2. Examples include cocoabutter confectionery (composed of cocoa 
butter, milk solids and sugar), white chocolate, chocolate chips, milk chocolate, 
cream chocolate, sweet chocolate, bitter chocolate, enrobing chocolate, chocolate 
covered in a sugar-based “shell” or with coloured decorations, filled chocolate 
(chocolate with a texturally distinctcentre and external coating, excluding flour 
confectionery and pastry products of categories 7.2.1and 7.2.2) and chocolate with 
added edible ingredients. This category does not include yoghurt-, cereal-, and 
honey-covered nuts (category 15.2). 
 
52[5.1.4 Imitation chocolate, chocolate substitute products] 
Includes chocolate-like products that may or may not be cocoa-based, but have 
similar organoleptic properties as chocolate, such as carob chips, and cocoa-based 
products that contain greater than 5% vegetable fat (other than cocoa butter) that are 
excluded from the scope of the Standard for Chocolate. These chocolate-like 
products may contain additional optional ingredients and may include filled 
confectionery. This category includes only the chocolate-like portion of any 
confectionery within the scope of food category 5.2. 
 
5.2 Confectionery including hard and soft candy, nougats, etc. other than food 
categories 5.1, 5.3, and 5.4 
Includes all types of products that primarily contain sugar and their dietetic 
counterparts, and may or may not contain cocoa. Includes hard candy (5.2.1), soft 
candy (5.2.2), and nougats and marzipans (5.2.3). 
 
52[5.2.1 Hard candy 
Products made from water and sugar (simple syrup), colour and flavour that may or 
may not have a filling, their dietetic counterparts, and products that may or may not 
contain cocoa. Includes: pastilles and lozenges (rolled, shaped and filled sweetened 
candy). These types of products may be used as fillings for chocolate products within 
the scope of food categories 5.1.3 and 5.1.4. 
 
5.2.2 Soft candy 
Products include soft, chewy products such as caramels (containing sugar syrup, fats, 
colour and flavour) and their dietetic counterparts; products that may or may not 
contain cocoa and milk (e.g. toffees and chocolate-flavoured caramels); jelly-based 
candies (e.g. jelly beans, jellied fruit paste covered in sugar, made from pectin, 
colour and flavour); and licorice. Also included are halwa, and oriental specialties, 


<<<PAGE 35>>>
such as sweet bean jelly etc. These types of products may be used as fillings for 
chocolate products within the scope of food categories 5.1.3 and 5.1.4. 
 
5.2.3 Nougats and Marzipans 
Nougats consist of roasted ground nuts, sugar and cocoa and their dietetic 
counterparts, that may be consumed as is, or may be used as a filling for chocolate 
products within the scope of food categories 5.1.3 and 5.1.4. Marzipan consists of 
almond paste and sugar and their dietetic counterparts that may be shaped and 
coloured for direct consumption, or may be used as a filling for chocolate products 
within the scope of food categories 5.1.3 and 5.1.4.] 
 
5.3 Chewing gum 
Product made from natural or synthetic gum base containing flavours, sweeteners 
(nutritive or non-nutritive), aroma compounds, and other additives. Includes bubble 
gum and breath-freshener gum products. 
 
5.4 Decorations, toppings (non-fruit) and sweet sauces 
Includes ready-to-eat icings and frostings for cakes, cookies, pies and bread and flour 
confectionery, as well as mixes for these products. Also includes sugar- and 
chocolate-based coatings for baked goods. Sweet sauces and toppings include 
butterscotch sauce for use, e.g. on ice cream. These sweet sauces are different than 
the syrups (e.g. maple, caramel, and flavoured syrups for fine bakery wares and ices) 
included in category 11.4. Fruit-based toppings are included in 4.1.2.8. Chocolate 
sauce is included in 5.1.2. 
 
6.0 Cereals and cereal products derived from cereal grains, roots and tubers, 
pulses, legumes and pith or soft core of palm tree, excluding bakery wares of 
food category 7.0 
Includes unprocessed (6.1) and various processed forms of cereal and cereal-based 
products. 
 
6.1 Whole, broken, or flaked grain, including rice 
Includes whole, husked, unprocessed cereals and grains. Examples include rice 
(including enriched, instant and parboiled), wheat, corn (maize), sorghum, barley, 
oats, millets, dried peas or legumes etc. 
 
6.2 Flours and starches (including soybean powder) 


<<<PAGE 36>>>
The basic milled products of cereal grains, roots, tubers, pulses, pith or softy core of 
palm tree or legumes sold as such or used as ingredients (e.g. in baked goods). 
 
6.2.1 Flour 
Flour is produced from the milling of grain, cereals and tubers (e.g. cassava) and 
seeds, pith or soft core of palm tree. Includes flour pastes for bread and flour 
confectionery, flour for bread, pastries, noodles and pasta, and flour mixes (physical 
mixtures of flours from different cereal or grain sources, which are different from 
mixes for bakery goods (dry mixes containing flour and other ingredients, categories 
7.1.6 (mixes for ordinary bakery wares) and 7.2.3 (mixes for fine bakery wares) such 
as  Atta, besan, suji, durum wheat flour, self-rising flour, enriched flour, instantized 
flour, corn flour, corn meal, kuttu-ka-atta, singhade-ka-atta, roasted soybean flour, 
konjac flour, and maida (refined wheat flour) and sago flour. 
 
6.2.2 Starches 
Starch is a glucose polymer occurring in granular form in certain plant species, 
notably seeds (e.g. cereals, pulses, corn, wheat, rice, beans, peas) and tubers (e.g. 
tapioca, potato). The polymer consists of linkedanhydro-alpha-D-glucose units. 
Native starch is separated by processes that are specific for each raw material. 
 
6.3 Breakfast cereals, including rolled oats 
Includes all ready-to-eat, instant, and regular hot breakfast cereal products. Examples 
include granola-type breakfast cereals, instant oatmeal, corn flakes, puffed wheat or 
rice or other cereals (puffed, pounded, popped) like poha, kheel, popcorn, multi-grain 
(e.g. rice, wheat and corn) breakfast cereals, breakfast cereals made from soy or bran, 
and extruded-type breakfast cereals made from grain flour or powder etc. 
 
6.4 Pastas and noodles and like products  
Includes all pasta, noodles and similar products e.g. rice paper, rice vermicelli, 
soybean pastas and noodles. 
 
6.4.1 Fresh pastas and noodles and like products 
Products that are untreated (i.e. not heated, boiled, steamed, cooked, pre-gelatinized 
or frozen) and are no dehydrated. These products are intended to be consumed soon 
after preparation. Examples include unboiled noodles, and “skins” or crusts for 
spring rolls, wontons, and shuo mai. 
 
 


<<<PAGE 37>>>
6.4.2 Dried pastas and noodles and like products 
Products that are untreated (i.e. not heated, boiled, steamed, cooked, pre-gelatinized 
or frozen) and are dehydrated. Examples include dried forms of: spaghetti, bean 
vermicelli, rice vermicelli, macaroni, and rice noodles. 
 
6.4.3 Pre-cooked pastas and noodles and like products 
Products that are treated (i.e. heated, boiled, steamed, cooked, pre-gelatinized or 
frozen). These products may be sold directly to the consumer (e.g. pre-cooked, 
chilled gnocchi to be heated prior to consumption), or may be the starch component 
of prepared meals (e.g. heat-and-serve frozen dinner entrees containing spaghetti, 
macaroni or noodles; canned spaghetti and meatballs entrée). Also includes instant 
noodles, e.g. pre-cooked ramen, udon, rice noodles, that are pre-gelatinized, heated 
and dried prior to sale to the consumer. 
 
6.5 Cereal and starch based desserts  
Dessert products containing cereal, starch or grain as the main ingredient. Also 
includes cereal- or starch based fillings for desserts such as rice pudding, semolina 
pudding, tapioca pudding, gujiya, balusahi, soan-papdi, patisa, malpua, and starchy 
pudding based desserts, cereal based desserts, suji or moong dal halwa, jalebi, 
boondiladdoo, motichoorladdoo, mysorepak, emarti, modak,rice flourdumplings, 
steamed yeast-fermented wheat flour dough desserts, starchy pudding based 
dessertsetc. 
 
6.6 Batters 
Products containing flaked or ground cereal or grain that when combined with other 
ingredients (e.g. water, milk, egg, fats, milk solids, spices, seasonings etc.) may be 
used as a coating for fish or poultry and includes products sold as dry mix of cereal 
or grain component. Examples include idli or vada or dosa batters, upma, idli or vada 
or dosa mixes, pongal mix, sattu, etc., batters for breading or batters for fish or 
poultry etc. Doughs (e.g. for bread) are found in 7.1.4, and other mixes (e.g. for 
bread or cakes) are found in 7.1.6 and 7.2.3, respectively. 
 
6.7 Pre-cooked or processed cereal/grain/legume products 
Fermented or non-fermented products prepared from cereals and/or pulse. Including 
processed cereals, cereal or malt-based food or beverage and/or pulse and enriched 
cereals and/or pulse products, such as poha, upma, idli, vada, dhokla, khandvi, papad 
etc. Products prepared from rice that is soaked, drained, steamed, kneaded and 
shaped into cake forms. Crisp snacks made from rice grains, also called “rice cakes” 


<<<PAGE 38>>>
are categorized in 15.1, and dessert-type rice cakes are in 6.5. Category 6.7 would 
also include processed rice and enriched rice products, such as pre-cooked products 
that are sold canned, chilled or frozen; and processed rice products sold in retort 
pouches. This is to distinguish from category 6.1 (Whole, broken, or flaked grain, 
including rice) that is intended to include only whole, husked, unprocessed cereals 
and grains. 
 
6.8 Soybean products (excluding soybean-based seasonings, and condiments of 
food category 12.9) 
Includes dried, cooked, fried or fermented soybean products, and soybean curd 
products. 
 
6.8.1 Soybean-based beverages 
Products prepared from dried soybeans that are soaked in water, pureed, boiled and 
strained, or prepared fromsoybean flour, soybean concentrate, or soybean isolate. 
Also includes soybean products, such as soybean-based beverage powder. 
 
6.8.2 Soybean-based beverage film 
Film formed on the surface of boiling soybean-based beverage that is dried. It may 
be deep-fried or softened in water prior to use in soups or poached food.  
 
6.8.3 Soybean curd (tofu) 
Soybean curd is prepared from dried soybeans that are soaked in water, pureed, and 
strained to produce soybean-based beverages, which is then made into a curd with a 
coagulant, and placed in a mould. Soybean curds may be of a variety of textures (e.g. 
soft, semi-firm, firm). 
 
6.8.4 Semi-dehydrated soybean curd 
Soybean curd that has been pressed while being moulded into blocks so that some 
moisture has been removed, but so that it is not completely dried (see food category 
6.8.5). Semi-dehydrated soybean curd typically contains 62% water, and has a chewy 
texture. 
 
6.8.4.1 Thick gravy-stewed semi-dehydrated soybean curd 
Partially dehydrated soybean curd that is cooked (stewed) with a thick sauce (e.g. 
miso sauce). The partially dehydrated soybean curd typically absorbs the sauce, and 
so regains its original texture. 
 


<<<PAGE 39>>>
6.8.4.2 Deep fried semi-dehydrated soybean curd 
Partially dehydrated soybean curd that is deep-fried. It may be consumed as such, or 
cooked (e.g. stewed in sauce) after frying. 
 
6.8.4.3 Semi-dehydrated soybean curd, other than food categories 6.8.4.1 and 
6.8.4.2 
Partially dehydrated soybean curd prepared other than by stewing in thick (e.g. miso) 
sauce or by deepfrying. Includes grilled products and mashed products that may be 
combined with other ingredients (e.g. to make a patty or a loaf). 
 
6.8.5 Dehydrated soybean curd 
Soybean curd from which all moisture has been removed through the process of 
freezing, aging, and dehydrating. It may be reconstituted with water or sauce for 
consumption, or is used directly in prepared dishes. It may also be deep-fried or 
simmered in sauce. 
 
6.8.6 Fermented soybeans  
The product is prepared from soybeans that have been steamed and fermented with 
certain fungi or bacteria (starter). The soft, whole beans have a distinctive aroma and 
taste. It includes products such as Kinema (Darjeeling hills and Sikkim), Turangbai 
(Meghalaya), Bekang (Mizoram), Peruyyan (Arunachal Pradesh), Hawaijar 
(Manipur), and Aakhuni (Nagaland) and other like Natto, and Tempe etc. 
 
6.8.7 Fermented soybean curd 
The product is prepared by forming soybean curd into a loaf during the fermentation 
process. It is a soft, flavoured product, either in red, rice-yellow, or grey-green. 
 
6.8.8 Other soybean protein products 
Other products from soybeans composed mainly of soybean protein such as extruded, 
textured, concentrated, and isolated soybean protein. 
 
7.0 Bakery wares 
Includes categories for bread and ordinary bakery wares (7.1) and for sweet, salty 
and savoury fine bakery wares (7.2). 
 
7.1 Bread and ordinary bakery wares and mixes 
Includes all types of non-sweet bakery products and bread-derived products. 
 


<<<PAGE 40>>>
7.1.1 Breads and rolls 
Includes yeast-leavened and specialty breads like white or brown ormultigrain 
breadandIndian breads (like kulcha, chapatti, roti, parantha, nan, pav etc.), wheat 
rolls, milk rolls, challa bread, pizza-base or pizza-bread, soda bread etc. 
 
7.1.1.1 Yeast-leavened breads and specialty breads 
Includes all types of non-sweet bakery products and bread-derived products such as 
include white bread, rye bread, pumpernickel bread, raisin bread, whole wheat bread, 
pain courant francais, malt bread, hamburger rolls, whole wheat rolls, and milk rolls. 
 
7.1.1.2 Soda breads 
Includes all soda breads. 
 
7.1.2 Crackers, excluding sweet crackers 
The term “cracker” refers to a thin, crisp wafer, usually dough. Flavoured crackers 
(e.g. cheese flavoured) that are consumed as snacks are in 15.1 such as soda crackers, 
rye crispsetc. 
 
7.1.3 Other ordinary bakery products  
Includes all other ordinary bakery wares, such as cornbread and biscuits, bagels, pita 
and muffins. The term “biscuit” in this category refers to a small cake of shortened 
bread, leavened with baking powder or baking soda. It does not refer tithe British 
“biscuit,” which is a “cookie” or “sweet cracker” included in category 7.2.1. 
 
7.1.4 Bread-type products, including bread stuffing and bread crumbs 
Includes bread-based products such as croutons, bread stuffing and stuffing mixes, 
and prepared doughs (e.g. for biscuits, toasted bread (rusks), prepared doughs for 
bread/bread-type products including their frozen counterparts etc.). Bread mixes are 
included in category 7.1.6. 
 
 
7.1.5 Steamed breads and buns 
Oriental-style leavened wheat or rice products that are cooked in a steamer. Products 
may be made with or without fillingsuch as twisted rolls of various shapes, filled 
dumplings and steamed bun with meat, jam or other filling. 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 41>>>
7.1.6 Mixes for bread and ordinary bakery wares 
Includes all the mixes containing the dry ingredients to which wet ingredients (e.g. 
water, milk, oil, butter, and eggs) are added to prepare dough for baked goods from 
food categories 7.1.1 to 7.1.5 such as French bread mix, tin bread mix, panettone 
mix, ciabatta mix, among others. Mixes for fine bakerywares (e.g. cakes, cookies, 
pancakes) are found in category 7.2.3. 
 
7.2 Fine bakery wares (sweet, salty, savoury) and mixes 
Includes sub-categories for ready-to-eat products (7.2.1 and 7.2.2) as well as mixes 
(7.2.3) for preparing fine baked goods. 
 
7.2.1 Cakes, cookies and pies  
The term “sweet cracker” or “sweet biscuit” used in this category refers to a cookie-
like product that may beaten as a dessert such as butter cake, cheesecake, fruit-filled 
cereal bars, pound cake, moist cake (type of starchy dessert), western cakes, moon 
cakes, sponge cake, fruit filled pies (e.g. apple pie), custard types, oatmeal cookies, 
sugar cookies and British “biscuits” (cookies or sweet crackers). 
 
7.2.2 Other fine bakery products  
Includes products that may be eaten as a dessert or as breakfast such as doughnuts, 
sweet rolls, muffins, pancakes, waffles, filled sweet buns, Danish pastry, wafers or 
cones for ice cream, flour confectionery, and trifles. 
 
7.2.3 Mixes for fine bakery wares  
Mixes containing the dry ingredients to which wet ingredients (e.g. water, milk, oil, 
butter, eggs) are added to prepare dough for fine baked goods such as cake mix, flour 
confectionery mix, pancake mix, pie-mix, and waffle mix. Prepared dough is found 
in category 7.1.4. Mixes for ordinary bakery wares (e.g. bread) is found in category 
7.1.6. 
 
8.0 Meat and meat products, including poultry  
This category includes all types of meat and poultry products, in pieces and cuts or 
comminutes fresh (8.1) and processed (8.2 and 8.3). 
 
8.1 Fresh meat and poultry 
Fresh products are usually free of additives.  
 
 


<<<PAGE 42>>>
8.1.1 Fresh meat and poultry whole pieces or cuts 
Untreated raw meat, and poultry carcasses and cuts. 
 
8.1.2 Fresh meat and poultry comminuted 
Untreated raw comminuted or mechanically deboned meat and poultry. 
 
8.2 Processed meat, and poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
Includes various treatments for non-heat treated meat cuts (8.2.1), and heat-treated 
meat cuts (8.3.2). 
 
8.2.1 Non-heat treated processed meat and poultry products in whole pieces or 
cuts 
This category describes several treatment methods (e.g. curing, salting, drying, 
pickling) that preserve and extend the shelf life of meats. 
 
8.2.1.1 Cured (including salted) non-heat treated processed meat and poultry 
products in whole pieces or cuts 
Salted products are treated with sodium chloride. Dry cured (dry pickled) products 
are prepared by rubbing salt directly on the meat surface. Wet pickle cured products 
are prepared by submerging the meat in a brine solution. Pump cured products are 
prepared by injecting brine into the meat. Curing may also be achieved by addition of 
additives. Smoked products are also included here.  
 
8.2.1.2 Cured (including salted) and dried non-heat treated processed meat and 
poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
The meat cuts may be cured or salted as described for category 8.2.1.1, and then 
dried, or they may only be dried. Drying is achieved either in hot air or in vacuum. 
 
8.2.1.3 Fermented non-heat treated processed meat and poultry products in 
whole pieces or cuts 
Fermented products are a type of pickled product produced by the action of lactic 
acid bacteria in the presence of salt.  
 
8.2.2 Heat-treated processed meat and poultry products in whole pieces or cuts 
Includes cooked (including cured and cooked, and dried and cooked), heat-treated 
(including sterilized) and canned meat cuts.  
 


<<<PAGE 43>>>
77[8.2.3 Frozen raw, flavored/marinated, processed meat and poultry products 
in whole pieces or cuts – 
Includes raw, flavoured/marinated raw and cooked meat cuts that have been frozen.] 
 
8.3 Processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
Includes various treatments for non-heat treated products (8.3.1) and heat-treated 
products (8.3.2). 
 
8.3.1 Non-heat treated processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
This category describes several treatment methods (e.g. curing, salting, drying, 
pickling) that preserve and extend the shelf life of comminuted and mechanically 
deboned meat products. 
 
8.3.1.1 Cured (including salted) non-heat treated processed comminuted meat 
and poultry products 
Salted products are treated with sodium chloride. Dry cured (dry pickled) products 
are prepared by rubbing salt directly on the meat surface. Wet pickle cured products 
are prepared by submerging the meat in a brine solution. Pump cured products are 
prepared by injecting brine into the meat. Curing may also be achieved by addition of 
additives. Also includes smoked products. 
 
8.3.1.2 Cured (including salted) and dried non-heat treated processed 
comminuted meat and poultry products 
The comminuted or mechanically deboned products may be cured or salted as 
described for category 8.3.1.1, and then dried, or they may only be dried. Drying is 
achieved either in hot air or in vacuum. 
8.3.1.3 Fermented non-heat treated processed comminuted meat and poultry 
products 
Fermented products are a type of pickled product produced by the action of lactic 
acid bacteria in the presence of salt. Certain types of sausages may be fermented. 
 
8.3.2 Heat-treated processed comminuted meat and poultry products 
Includes cooked (including cured and cooked, and dried and cooked), heat-treated 
(including sterilized) and canned comminuted products.  
 
8.3.3 Frozen processed comminuted meat andpoultry products 
Includes raw, partially cooked and fully cooked comminuted or mechanically 
deboned meat products that have been frozen. 


<<<PAGE 44>>>
8.4 Edible casings (e.g. sausage casings) 
Casings or tubing prepared from collagen, cellulose, or food-grade synthetic material 
or from natural sources that contain the sausage mix. 
 
9.0 Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
This broad category is divided into categories for fresh fish (9.1) and various 
processed fish products (9.2– 9.4). This category includes aquatic vertebrates (e.g. 
fish) and aquatic invertebrates (e.g. jellyfish), as well as molluscs (e.g. clams, snails), 
crustaceans (e.g. shrimp, crab, lobster), and echinoderms (e.g. sea urchins, sea 
cucumbers). Fish products may be treated with coatings, such as glazes and spice 
rubs, prior to marketing to the consumer (e.g. glazed frozen fish fillets).  
 
9.1 Fresh fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms 
The term “fresh” refers to fish and fish products that are untreated except for 
refrigeration, storage on ice, or freezing upon catching at sea or in lakes or other 
bodies of water in order to prevent decomposition and spoilage. 
 
9.1.1. Fresh fish 
Includes fresh rohu, catla, hilsa, singhada, trout, pomphret, cod, salmon, fishroe etc 
 
9.1.2 Fresh molluscs, crustaceans and echinoderms 
Includes fresh shrimp, clams, crabs, lobster, snails etc. 
 
9.2 Processed fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms 
This category refers to fish products that are frozen and may require further cooking, 
as well as ready-to-eat cooked, smoked, dried, fermented, and salted products. 
 
9.2.1 Frozen fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, 
and echinoderms 
Fresh, including partially cooked, fish subjected to freezing or quick-freezing at sea 
and on land for further processing such as frozen or deep frozen clams, cod fillets, 
crab, finfish, haddock, hake, lobster, minced fish, prawns and shrimp; frozen fish roe; 
frozen surimietc. 
 
9.2.2 Frozen battered fish, fish fillets and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 


<<<PAGE 45>>>
Uncooked product prepared from fish or fish portions, with dressing in eggs and 
bread crumbs or batter. Examples include frozen raw breaded or batter-coated 
shrimp; and frozen or quick-frozen breaded or batter coated fish fillets, fish portions 
and fish sticks (fish fingers) etc. 
 
9.2.3 Frozen minced and creamed fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Uncooked product prepared from minced fish pieces in cream-type sauce. 
 
9.2.4 Cooked and/or fried fish and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Includes all ready-to-eat cooked products as described in the sub-categories. 
 
9.2.4.1 Cooked fish and fish products 
Cooked products include steamed, boiled or any other cooking method except frying 
(see 9.2.4.3). The fish may be whole, in portions or comminuted such as fish 
sausage; cooked fish products boiled down in soy sauce; cooked surimi products, 
cooked fish roe; cooked fish and lobster paste (surimi-like products. Other fish paste 
(Oriental type) is found in 9.3.4. 
 
9.2.4.2 Cooked molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Cooked products include steamed, boiled or any other cooking method except frying 
(see 9.2.4.3) such as cooked Crangon crangon and Crangon vulgaris (brown shrimp; 
cooked shrimp), clams and crabs. 
 
9.2.4.3 Fried fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms 
Ready-to-eat products prepared from fish or fish portions, with or without further 
dressing in eggs and breadcrumbs or batter, that are fried, baked, roasted or 
barbecued, and then packaged or canned with or without sauce or oil. Examples 
include ready-to-eat fried surimi, fried calamari, and fried soft-shell crabs. 
 
9.2.5 Smoked, dried, fermented, and/or salted fish and fish products, including 
molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Smoked fish are usually prepared from fresh deep frozen or frozen fish that are dried 
directly or after boiling, with or without salting, by exposing the fish to freshly-
generated sawdust smoke. Dried fish are prepared by exposing the fish to sunlight or 
drying directly or after boiling in a special installation; the fish may be salted prior to 


<<<PAGE 46>>>
drying. Salted fish are either rubbed with salt or placed in a salt solution. This 
manufacturing process is different from that described in food category 9.3 for 
marinated and pickled fish. Cured fish is prepared by salting and then smoking fish 
such as salted anchovies, shrimp, and shad; smoked chub, cuttlefish and octopus; fish 
ham; dried and salted species of the Gadidae species; smoked or salted fish paste and 
fish roe; cured and smoked sablefish, shad, and salmon; dried shellfish, dried bonito, 
and boiled, dried fish. 
 
9.3 Semi-preserved fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and 
echinoderms 
Includes products treated by methods such as marinating, pickling and partial 
cooking that have a limited shelf life. 
 
9.3.1 Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms, 
marinated and/or in jelly 
Marinated products are manufactured by soaking the fish in vinegar or wine with or 
without added salt and spices. They are packaged in jars or cans and have a limited 
shelf life. Products in jelly may be manufactured by tenderizing fish products by 
cooking or steaming, adding vinegar or wine, salt and preservatives, and solidifying 
in a jelly such as “roll mops” (a type of marinated herring), sea eel(dogfish) in jelly 
and fish aspic. 
 
9.3.2 Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms, 
pickled and/or in brine 
Pickled products are sometimes considered a type of marinated product. Pickling 
results from the treatment of the fish with a salt and vinegar or alcohol (e.g. wine) 
solution. Examples include different types of Oriental pickled productse.g. pickled 
fish, pickled herring and sprat. 
 
9.3.3 Salmon substitutes, caviar, and other fish roe products 
The term “caviar” refers only to the roe of the sturgeon species. Caviar substitutes 
are made of roe of various sea and freshwater fish (e.g. cod and herring) that are 
salted, spiced, dyed and may be treated with a preservative such as salted salmon roe, 
processed, salted salmon roe, cod roe, salted cod roe and lumpfish caviar. 
Occasionally, roe may be pasteurized. In this case, it is included in food category 9.4, 
since it is a fully preserved product. Roe products that are frozen, cooked or smoked 
are included in category 9.2.1, 9.2.4.1, and 9.2.5, respectively; fresh fish roe is found 
in category 9.1.1, 9.3.4. Semi-preserved fish and fish products, including molluscs, 


<<<PAGE 47>>>
crustaceans, and echinoderms (e.g. fish paste), excluding products of food categories 
9.3.1 – 9.3.3such as fish or crustacean pates and traditional Oriental fish paste. The 
latter is produced from fresh fish or the residue from fish sauce production, which is 
combined with other ingredients such as wheat flour, rice or soybeans. The product 
may be further fermented. Cooked fish or crustacean pastes (surimi-like products) are 
found in 9.2.4.1 and 9.2.4.2, respectively. 
 
9.4 Fully preserved, including canned or fermented fish and fish products, 
including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Products with extended shelf life, manufactured by pasteurizing or steam retorting 
and packaging in vacuum sealed air-tight containers to ensure sterility. Products may 
be packed in their own juice or in added oil or sauce. This category excludes fully 
cooked products (see category 9.2.4) such as canned tuna, clams, crab, fish roe and 
sardines; gefilte fish balls; and surimi (heat-pasteurized). 
 
10.0 Eggs and egg products 
Includes fresh in-shell eggs (10.1), products that may substitute for fresh eggs (10.2) 
and other egg products (10.3 and 10.4). 
 
10.1 Fresh eggs 
Fresh in-shell eggs are free of additives. 
 
10.2 Egg products 
Products that may be used as replacement for fresh eggs in recipes or as a food (e.g. 
omelette). They are produced from fresh eggs by either (i) mixing and purifying the 
whole egg; or (ii) separating the egg white and yolk, and then mixing and purifying 
each separately. The purified whole egg, white or yolk is then further processed to 
produce liquid, frozen or dried eggs. 
 
10.2.1 Liquid egg products 
The purified whole egg, egg yolk or egg white is pasteurized and chemically 
preserved (e.g. by addition of salt). 
 
10.2.2 Frozen egg products 
Includes purified, pasteurized and frozen whole egg, egg yolk or egg white. 
 
10.2.3 Dried and/or heat coagulated egg products 
De-sugared purified, pasteurized and dried whole egg, egg yolk or egg white. 


<<<PAGE 48>>>
 
10.3 Preserved eggs, including alkaline, salted, and canned eggs 
Includes traditional Oriental preserved products, such as salt-cured and alkaline 
treated eggs. 
 
10.4 Egg-based desserts  
Includes ready-to-eat products and products to be prepared from a dry mix such as 
flan and egg custard. Also includes custard fillings for fine bakery wares (e.g. pies). 
 
11.0 Sweeteners, including honey 
Includes all standardized sugars (11.1), non-standardized products (e.g. 11.2, 11.3, 
11.4 and 11.6), and natural sweeteners (11.5 – honey). 
 
11.1 Refined and raw sugars 
Nutritive sweeteners, such as fully or partially purified sucrose (derived from sugar 
beet and sugar cane), glucose (derived from starch), or fructose, that are included in 
sub-categories 11.1.1 to 11.1.5. 
 
11.1.1 White sugar, dextrose anhydrous, dextrose monohydrate, fructose 
White sugar is purified and crystallized sucrose. Dextrose anhydrous is purified and 
crystallized D-glucose without water of crystallization. Dextrose monohydrate is 
purified and crystallized D-glucose with one molecule of water of crystallization. 
Fructose is purified and crystallized D-fructose. Examples include refined sugar, 
cube sugar, mishri etc. 
 
11.1.2 Powdered sugar, powdered dextrose 
Powdered sugar (icing sugar) is finely pulverized white sugar with or without added 
anti-caking agents. Powdered dextrose (icing dextrose) is finely pulverized dextrose 
anhydrous or dextrose monohydrate, or a mixture of the two, with or without added 
anti-caking agents. 
 
11.1.3 Soft white sugar, soft brown sugar, glucose syrup, dried glucose syrup, 
raw cane sugar 
Soft white sugar is fine grain purified, moist sugar, that is white in colour. Soft 
brown sugar is fine grain moist sugar that is light to dark brown in colour. Glucose 
syrup is a purified concentrated aqueous solution of nutritive saccharides derived 
from starch or inulin or both. Dried glucose syrup is glucose syrup from which water 
has been partially removed. Raw cane sugar is partially purified sucrose crystallized 


<<<PAGE 49>>>
from partially purified cane juice without further purification. Examples include 
Khandsari sugar. 
 
11.1.3.1 Dried glucose syrup used to manufacture sugar confectionery 
Dried glucose syrup, as described in 11.1.3, used to manufacture candy products that 
are included in food category5.2 (e.g. hard or soft candies). 
 
11.1.3.2 Glucose syrup used to manufacture sugar confectionery 
Glucose syrup, as described in 11.1.3, used to manufacture candy products that are 
included in food category5.2 (e.g. hard or soft candies). 
 
11.1.4 Lactose 
A natural constituent of milk normally obtained from whey. It may be anhydrous, or 
contain one molecule of water of crystallization, or be a mixture of both forms. 
 
11.1.5 Plantation or mill white sugar 
Purified and crystallized sucrose. 
 
52[11.1.6 Gur or Jaggery means the product obtained by boiling or processing juice 
pressed out of sugarcane or extracted from palmyra palm, date palm or coconut palm. 
 
 11.1.6.1 Cane Jaggery or Gur means the product obtained by boiling or processing 
juice pressed out of or extracted from sugarcane. 
 
 11.1.6.2 Palm Jaggery or Gur means the product obtained by boiling or processing 
juice pressed out of or extracted from palmyra palm or coconut palm. 
 
 11.1.6.3 Date Jaggery or Gur means the product obtained by boiling or processing 
juice pressed out of or extracted from date palm.] 
 
11.2 Brown sugar excluding products of food category 11.1.3 
Includes large-grain, brown or yellow lump sugars, such as demerara sugar, gur and 
jaggery. 
 
11.3 Sugar solutions and syrups, also (partially) inverted, including treacle and 
molasses, excluding products of food category 11.1.3 
Includes co-products of the sugar refining process (e.g. treacle and molasses), invert 
sugar (equimolarmixture of glucose and fructose produced from the hydrolysis of 


<<<PAGE 50>>>
sucrose), and other sweeteners, such as high fructose corn syrup, high fructose inulin 
syrup and corn sugar. 
 
11.4 Other sugars and syrups  
Includes all types of table syrups (e.g. xylose, maple syrup), syrups for fine bakery 
wares and ices (e.g. caramel syrup, flavoured syrups), and decorative sugar toppings 
(e.g. coloured sugar crystals for cookies). 
 
11.5 Honey: 
Honey is the natural sweet substance produced by honeybees from the nectar of 
blossoms or secretions of plants. Examples of honey include wild flora honey, multi-
flora honey, rapeseed or mustard honey, clover honey etc. 
 
11.6 Table-top sweeteners, including those containing high-intensity sweeteners 
Includes products that are preparations of high-intensity sweeteners (e.g. acesulfame 
potassium, steviols) and/or ofpolyols (e.g. sorbitol). These products, which are sold 
to the final consumer, may be in powder, solid (e.g. tablets or cubes), or liquid form. 
 
12.0 Salts, spices, soups, sauces, salads, protein products 
This is a broad category that includes substances added to food to enhance its aroma 
and taste (12.1 – salt and salt substitutes; 12.2 – herbs, spices, seasonings and 
condiments (e.g. seasoning for instant noodles);12.3 – vinegars; and 12.4 - mustards), 
certain prepared foods (12.5 – soups and broths; 12.6 – sauces and like products; and 
12.7 – salads (e.g. macaroni salad, potato salad) and sandwich spreads, excluding 
cocoa and nut-based spreads of food categories 4.2.2.5 and 5.1.3)), and products 
composed primarily of protein that are derived from soybeans or from other sources 
(e.g. milk, cereal, or vegetables) (12.9 –soybean based seasonings and condiments; 
and 12.10 – protein products other than from soybeans). 
 
12.1 Salt and salt substitutes 
Includes salt (12.1.1) and salt substitutes (12.1.2) used as seasoning for food. 
 
12.1.1 Salt 
Primarily food-grade sodium chloride. Includes table salt, iodized and fluoride 
iodized salt, and dendritic salt. This category also includes similar traditional 
products like black salt, rock salt (sendhanamak, kala namak, Gumma namak) sea 
salt etc. 
 


<<<PAGE 51>>>
12.1.2 Salt substitutes 
Salt substitutes are seasonings with reduced sodium content intended to be used on 
food in place of salt. 
 
52[12.2 Herbs, spices, seasonings, and condiments 
This category describes items intended to enhance the aroma and taste of food. 
Spices means any form of spice including curry powders, spice oils, oleoresins and 
other mixtures where spice content is predominant.] 
 
52[12.2.1 Herbs, spices, masalas, spice mixtures including oleoresins or 
extracts/derivatives thereof] 
Herbs and spices are usually derived from botanical sources, and may be dehydrated, 
and either ground or whole. Examples include chilli, turmeric, pepper, asafoetida, 
anise, aniseed (saunf), basil, bay leaf, caraway (shiajeera), cardamom (elaichi), large 
cardamom, cinnamon, clove, cumin, and carom seeds (ajowain) etc. Spices may also 
be found as blends in powder or paste form. Examples of spice blends include chilli 
seasoning, chilli paste, curry paste, curry roux, and dry cures or rub that are applied 
to external surfaces of meat or fish. Blends of spices with other ingredients (Masalas) 
include curry powder, sambhar masala, rasam masala, chhole masala, pavbhaji 
masala etc.  
 
12.2.2 Seasonings and condiments 
Seasonings and condiments are spice mixes with other ingredients which go as 
toppings to sprinkle on rice and other foods, and include seasonings for noodles, 
Puliyogare mix, onion salt, garlic salt etc. The term “condiments” as used in the Food 
Category System does not include condiment sauces (e.g. ketchup, mayonnaise, 
mustard) or relishes. 
 
12.3 Vinegars 
Liquid produced from fermentation of ethanol from a suitable source (e.g. wine, 
cider). Examples include cider vinegar, wine vinegar, malt vinegar, spirit vinegar, 
grain vinegar, raisin vinegar, fruit (wine) vinegar and synthetic vinegar. 
 
12.4 Mustards 
Condiment sauce prepared from ground often defatted mustard seed that is mixed 
into slurry with water, vinegar, salt, oil and other spices and refined. Examples 
include Dijon mustard, and “hot” mustard (prepared from seeds with hulls). 
 


<<<PAGE 52>>>
12.5 Soups and broths 
Includes ready-to-eat soups and mixes. The finished products may be water- (e.g. 
consommé) or milk-based (e.g. chowder). 
 
12.5.1 Ready-to-eat soups and broths, including canned, bottled, and frozen 
Water- or milk-based products consisting of vegetable, meat or fish broth with or 
without other ingredients (e.g. vegetables, meat, noodles) such as rasam, bouillon, 
broths, consommés, water- and cream-based soups, chowders, and bisques. 
 
12.5.2 Mixes for soups and broths 
Concentrated soup to be reconstituted with water and/or milk, with or without 
addition of other optional ingredients (e.g. vegetables, meat, noodles) such as rasam 
powder, bouillon powders and cubes; powdered and condensed soups; and stock 
cubes and powders etc. 
 
12.6 Sauces and like products 
Includes ready-to-eat sauces, gravies and dressings, and mixes to be reconstituted 
before consumption. The ready-to-eat products are divided into sub-categories for 
emulsified (12.6.1) and non-emulsified (12.6.2) products, whereas the sub-category 
for the mixes (12.6.3) encompasses both emulsified and non-emulsified sauce mixes. 
 
12.6.1 Emulsified sauces and dips 
Sauces, gravies, dressings based and dips, at least in part, on a fat- or oil-in water 
emulsion such as salad dressing (e.g. French, Italian, Greek, ranch style), fat-based 
sandwich spreads (e.g. mayonnaise with mustard), salad cream, and fatty sauces and 
snack dips (e.g. bacon and cheddar dip, onion dip). 
 
12.6.2 Non-emulsified sauces  
Include water-, coconut milk-, and milk-based sauces, gravies and dressings. 
Examples include barbecue sauce, tomato ketchup, cheese sauce, Worcestershire 
sauce, Oriental thick Worcestershire sauce, chilli sauce, sweet and sour dipping 
sauce, and white (cream-based) sauce (sauce consisting primarily of milk or cream, 
with little added fat (e.g. butter) and flour, with or without seasoning or spices). 
 
12.6.3 Mixes for sauces and gravies 
Concentrated product, usually in powdered form, to be mixed with water, milk, oil or 
other liquid to prepare a finished sauce or gravy such as mixes for cheese sauce, and 
salad dressings etc. 


<<<PAGE 53>>>
12.6.4 Clear sauces  
Includes thin, non-emulsified clear sauces that may be water-based. These sauces 
may be used as condiments or ingredients rather than as finished gravy such as oyster 
sauce and fish sauce. 
 
12.7 Salads and sandwich spreads excluding cocoa- and nut-based spreads of 
food categories 4.2.2.5 and 5.1.3 
Includes prepared salads (e.g. macaroni salad, potato salad), milk-based sandwich 
spreads, non-standardized mayonnaise-like sandwich spreads, and dressings etc. 
12.8 Yeast and like products: 
Includes baker’s yeast and leaven used in the manufacture of baked goods. Includes 
the products used in the production of alcoholic beverages. 
 
12.9 Soybean-based seasonings and condiments 
Includes products that are derived from soybeans and other ingredients intended for 
use as seasonings and condiments, such as fermented soybean paste and soybean 
sauces. 
 
12.9.1 Fermented soybean paste 
The product is made of soybeans, salt, water and other ingredients, using the process 
of fermentation (e.g. miso).  
 
12.9.2 Soybean sauce 
A liquid seasoning obtained by fermentation of soybeans, non-fermentation (e.g. 
hydrolysis) of soybeans, orby hydrolysis of vegetable protein. 
 
12.9.2.1 Fermented soybean sauce 
A clear, non-emulsified sauce made of soybeans, cereal, salt and water by the 
fermentation process. 
 
12.9.2.2 Non-fermented soybean sauces 
Non-fermented soybean sauce, which is also known as non-brewed soybean sauce, 
may be produced from vegetable proteins, such as defatted soybeans that are acid-
hydrolyzed (e.g. with hydrochloric acid), neutralized (e.g. with sodium carbonate), 
and filtered. 
 
 


<<<PAGE 54>>>
12.9.2.3 Other soybean sauce 
Non-emulsified sauce made from fermented soybean sauce and/or non-fermented 
soybean sauce, with or without sugar, with or without caramelization process. 
 
12.10 Protein products other than from soybeans 
Includes cereal or legume or vegetable protein products such as wheat gluten, 
vegetable protein analogues, and proteinaceous meat or milk and fish substitutes. 
Includes their isolates, concentrates and hydrolystes, single cell protein including 
Spirulina. 
 
13.0 Foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses 
 
13.1 Infant formulae, follow-up formulae, and formulae for special medical 
purposes for infants 
 
13.1.1 Infant formulae 
 
13.1.2 Follow-up formulae 
 
13.2 Complementary foods for infants and young children 
 
13.3 Dietetic foods intended for special medical purposes (excluding products of 
food category 13.1) 
 
13.4 Dietetic formulae for slimming purposes and weight reduction 
 
13.5 Dietetic foods (e.g., supplementary foods for dietary use) excluding 
products of food categories 13.1 -13.4 and 13.6 
 
13.6 Food supplements 
 
14.0 Beverages, excluding dairy products 
 
14.1 Non-alcoholic ("soft") beverages 
This broad category includes waters and carbonated waters (14.1.1), fruit and 
vegetable juices (14.1.2), fruit and vegetable nectars (14.1.3), water-based flavoured 
carbonated and non-carbonated drinks (14.1.4), and water-based brewed or steeped 
beverages such as coffee and tea (14.1.5). 


<<<PAGE 55>>>
14.1.1 Waters 
Includes natural waters (14.1.1.1) and other bottled waters (14.1.1.2), each of which 
may be non-carbonated or carbonated. 
 
14.1.1.1 Natural mineral waters and source waters 
Waters obtained directly at the source and packaged close to the source; are 
characterized by the presence of certain mineral salts in relative proportions and trace 
elements or other constituents. Natural mineral water may be naturally carbonated 
(with carbon dioxide from the source), carbonated (with added carbon dioxide of 
another origin), decarbonised (with less carbon dioxide than present in the water at 
the source so it does not spontaneously give off carbon dioxide under conditions of 
standard temperature and pressure), or fortified (with carbon dioxide from the 
source), and non-carbonated (contains no free carbon dioxide). 
 
14.1.1.2 Table waters and soda waters 
Includes waters other than natural source waters that may be carbonated by addition 
of carbon dioxide and may be processed by filtration, disinfection, or other suitable 
means. These waters may contain added mineral salts. Carbonated and non-
carbonated waters containing flavours are found in category 14.1.4such as table 
water, bottled water with or without added minerals, purified water, seltzer water, 
club soda, and sparkling water. 
 
14.1.2 Fruit and vegetable juices 
This category applies only to fruit and vegetable juices. Beverages based on fruit and 
vegetable juices are found in food category 14.1.4.2. Fruit-vegetable juice blends 
have separate classifications for each component (i.e. fruit juice (14.1.2.1) and 
vegetable juice (14.1.2.3). 
 
14.1.2.1 Fruit juices 
Fruit juice is the unfermented but fermentable liquid obtained from the edible part of 
sound, appropriately mature and fresh fruit or of fruit maintained in sound condition 
by suitable means. The juice is prepared by suitable processes, which maintain the 
essential physical, chemical, organoleptical and nutritional characteristics of the 
juices of the fruit from which it comes. The juice may be cloudy or clear, and may 
have restored (to the normal level attained in the same kind of fruit) aromatic 
substances and volatile flavour components, all of which must be obtained by 
suitable physical means, and all of which must have been recovered from the same 
kind of fruit. Pulp and cells obtained by suitable physical means from the same kind 


<<<PAGE 56>>>
of fruit may be added. A single juice is obtained from one kind of fruit. A mixed 
juice is obtained by blending two or more juices or juices and purees, from different 
kinds of fruit. Fruit juice may be obtained, e.g. by directly expressing the juice by 
mechanical extraction processes, by reconstituting concentrated fruit juice (food 
category 14.1.2.3) with water, or in limited situations by water extraction of the 
whole fruit. Examples include orange juice, apple juice, black currant juice, lemon 
juice, orange-mango juice and coconut water. 
 
14.1.2.2 Vegetable juices 
Vegetable juice is the liquid unfermented but fermentable product intended for direct 
consumption obtained by mechanical expression, crushing, grinding, and/or sieving 
of one or more sound fresh vegetables or vegetables preserved exclusively by 
physical means. The juice may be clear, turbid, or pulpy. It may have been 
concentrated and reconstituted with water. Products may be based on a single 
vegetable (e.g. carrot) or blends of vegetables (e.g. carrots, celery). 
 
14.1.2.3 Concentrates of fruit juices 
Concentrated fruit juice is the product that complies with the definition given in food 
category 14.1.2.1. It is prepared by the physical removal of water from fruit juice in 
an amount to increase the Brix level to a value at least 50% greater than that 
established for reconstituted juice from the same fruit. In the production of juice that 
is to be concentrated, suitable processes are used, and may be combined; with 
simultaneous diffusion of the pulp cells or fruit pulp by water, provided that the 
water-extracted soluble fruit solids are added in-line to the primary juice, before the 
concentration procedure. Fruit juice concentrates may have restored (to the normal 
level attained in the same kind of fruit) aromatic substances and volatile flavour 
components, all of which must be obtained by suitable physical means, and all of 
which must be recovered from the same kind of fruit. Pulp and cells obtained by 
suitable physical means from the same kind of fruit may be added. Sold in liquid, 
syrup and frozen forms for the preparation of a ready-to-drink juice by addition of 
water. Examples include frozen orange juice concentrate, and lemon juice 
concentrate. 
 
14.1.2.4 Concentrates of vegetable juices 
Prepared by the physical removal of water from vegetable juice. Sold in liquid, syrup 
and frozen forms for the preparation of a ready-to-drink juice by addition of water. 
Includes carrot juice concentrate. 
 


<<<PAGE 57>>>
14.1.3 Fruit and vegetable nectars 
Fruit and vegetable nectars are beverages produced from purees, juices, or 
concentrates of either, blended with water and sugar, honey, syrups, and/or 
sweeteners. Fruit-vegetable nectar blends are reported under their components (i.e. 
fruit nectar (14.1.3.1) and vegetable nectar (14.1.3.2). 
 
14.1.3.1 Fruit nectar 
Fruit nectar is the unfermented but fermentable product obtained by adding water 
with or without the addition of sugar, honey, syrups, and/or sweeteners to fruit juice, 
concentrated fruit juice, fruit purees or concentrated fruit purees, or a mixture of 
those products. Aromatic substances, volatile flavour components, pulp and cells, all 
of which must have been recovered from the same kind of fruit and obtained by 
suitable physical means, may be added. Products may be based on a single fruit or on 
fruit blends such aspear nectar and peach nectar. 
 
14.1.3.2 Vegetable nectar 
Product obtained by adding water with or without the addition of sugar, honey, 
syrups, and/or sweeteners to vegetable juice or concentrated vegetable juice, or a 
mixture of those products. Products may be based on a single vegetable or on a blend 
of vegetables. 
 
14.1.3.3 Concentrates of fruit nectar 
Prepared by the physical removal of water from fruit nectar or its starting materials. 
Sold in liquid, syrup and frozen forms for the preparation of a ready-to-drink nectar 
by addition of water. Examples: pear nectar concentrate and peach nectar 
concentrate. 
 
14.1.3.4 Concentrates of vegetable nectar 
Prepared by the physical removal of water from vegetable nectar. Sold in liquid, 
syrup and frozen forms forth preparation of ready-to-drink nectars by addition of 
water. 
 
14.1.4 Water-based flavoured drinks, including “sport,” “energy,” or 
“electrolyte” drinks and particulateddrinks 
Includes all carbonated and non-carbonated varieties and concentrates, products 
based on fruit and vegetable juices, coffee-, tea- and herbal-based drinks etc. 
 
 


<<<PAGE 58>>>
14.1.4.1 Carbonated water-based flavoured drinks 
Includes water-based flavoured drinks with added carbon dioxide with nutritive, non-
nutritive and/or intense sweeteners and other permitted food additives. Includes 
gaseosa (water-based drinks with added carbon dioxide, sweetener, and flavour), and 
sodas such as colas, pepper-types, root beer, lemon-lime, and citrus types, both 
diet/light and regular types. These beverages may be clear, cloudy, or may contain 
particulate matter (e.g. fruit pieces). Includes so-called “energy” drinks that are 
carbonated and contain high levels of nutrients and other ingredients. 
 
14.1.4.2 Non-carbonated water-based flavoured drinks, including punches and 
Ades 
Include water-based flavoured drinks without added carbon dioxide, fruit and 
vegetable juice-based drinks(e.g. almond, aniseed, coconut-based drinks, and ginseng 
drink), fruit flavoured ades (e.g. lemonade, orangeade), fruit based soft drinks, capile 
groselha, lactic acid beverage, ready-to-drink coffee and tea drinks with or without 
milk or milk solids, and herbal-based drinks (e.g. iced tea, fruit-flavoured iced tea, 
chilled canned cappuccino drinks) and “sports” drinks containing electrolytes. These 
beverages may be clear or contain particulated matter (e.g. fruit pieces), and may be 
unsweetened or sweetened with sugar ora non-nutritive high-intensity sweetener. 
Includes so-called “energy” drinks that are non-carbonated and contain high levels of 
nutrients and other ingredients. 
 
14.1.4.3 Concentrates (liquid or solid) for water-based flavoured drinks 
Include powder, syrup, liquid and frozen concentrates for the preparation of 
carbonated or non-carbonated water-based non-alcoholic beverages by addition of 
water or carbonated water. Examples include squashes, fountain syrups (e.g. cola 
syrup), fruit syrups for soft drinks, frozen or powdered concentrate for lemonade and 
iced tea mixes. 
 
14.1.5 Coffee, coffee substitutes, tea, herbal infusions, and other hot cereal and 
grain beverages, excluding cocoa 
Includes the ready-to-drink products (e.g. canned), and their mixes and concentrates 
such as chicory-based hot beverages (postum), rice tea, mate tea, and mixes for hot 
coffee and tea beverages (e.g. instant coffee, powder for hot cappuccino beverages). 
Treated coffee beans for the manufacture of coffee products are also included. 
Ready-to-drink cocoa is included in category 1.1.2, and cocoa mixes in 5.1.1. 
 
 


<<<PAGE 59>>>
14.2 Alcoholic beverages, including alcohol-free and low-alcoholic counterparts 
The alcohol-free and low-alcoholic counterparts are included in the same category as 
the alcoholic beverage. 
 
14.2.1 Beer and malt beverages 
Alcoholic beverages brewed from germinated barley (malt), hops, yeast, and water 
such as ale, lager, pilsner, brown beer, weiss beer, oud bruin beer, Obergariges 
Einfachbier, light beer, table beer, malt liquor, porter, stout, and barley wine. 
 
14.2.2 Cider and Perry 
Fruit wines made from apples (cider) and pears (Perry). Also includes cider bouche. 
 
14.2.3 Grape wines 
Alcoholic beverage obtained exclusively from the partial or complete alcoholic 
fermentation of fresh grapes, whether crushed or not, or of grape must (juice). 
 
14.2.3.1 Still grape wine 
Grape wine (white, red, rosé, or blush, dry or sweet) that may contain up to a 
maximum 0.4g/100 ml (4000mg/kg) carbon dioxide at 20oC. 
 
14.2.3.2 Sparkling and semi-sparkling grape wines 
Grape wines in which carbonation is produced during the fermentation process, 
either by bottle fermentation or closed tank fermentation. Also includes carbonated 
wine whose carbon dioxide is partially or totally of exogenous origin such as 
spumante, and “cold duck” wine. 
 
14.2.3.3 Fortified grape wine, grape liquor wine, and sweet grape wine 
Grape wines produced either by: (i) the fermentation of grape must (juice) of high 
sugar concentration; or (ii) by the blending of concentrated grape juice with wine; or 
(iii) the mixture of fermented must with alcohol such as grape dessert wine. 
 
14.2.4 Wines (other than grape) 
Includes wines made from fruit other than grapes, apples and pears, and from other 
agricultural products, including grain (e.g. rice). These wines may be still or 
sparkling. Examples include rice wine (sake), and sparkling and still fruit wines. 
 
 
14.2.5 Mead 


<<<PAGE 60>>>
Alcoholic liquor made from fermented honey, malt and spices, or just of honey. 
Includes honey wine. 
 
14.2.6 Distilled spirituous beverages containing more than 15% alcohol 
Includes all distilled spirituous beverages derived from grain (e.g. corn, barley, rye, 
wheat), tubers (e.g. potato), fruit (e.g. grapes, berries) or sugar cane that contain 
greater than 15% alcohol such as aperitifs, brandy (distilled wine), cordials, liqueurs 
(including emulsified liqueurs), tequila, whiskey, and vodka. 
 
14.2.7 Aromatized alcoholic beverages  
Includes all non-standardized alcoholic beverage products. Although most of these 
products contain less than 15% alcohol, some traditional non-standardized 
aromatized products may contain up to 24% alcoholsuch as aromatized wine, cider 
and perry; aperitif wines; and prepared cocktails (mixtures of liquors, liqueurs, 
wines, essences, fruit and plant extracts, etc. marketed as ready-to-drink products or 
mixes). Cooler-type beverages are composed of beer, malt beverage, wine or 
spirituous beverage, low-alcoholic refreshers, fruit juice(s), and soda water (if 
carbonated) etc. 
 
15.0 Ready-to-Eat savouries 
Includes all types of savoury snack foods. 
 
15.1 Snacks - potato, cereal, flour or starch based (from roots and tubers, pulses 
and legumes) 
Includes all savoury snacks, with or without added flavourings, 52[but excludes 
unsweetened crackers (category 7.1.2). Example includes potato chips], popcorn, 
pretzels, rice crackers,  flavoured crackers (e.g. cheese-flavoured crackers), bhujia 
(namkeen; snack made of a mixture of flours, maize, potatoes, salt, dried fruit, 
peanuts, spices, colours, flavours, and antioxidants), and papads(prepared from 
soaked rice flour or from black gram or cow pea flour, mixed with salt and spices, 
and formed into balls or flat cakes), khari, kara, murukku, namakpara, chiwda, 
palakayalu, ribbon or thattupakoda, dalmoth or mixtures, soya nuts, nimki, fali (e.g. 
cholafali), other fried or baked snacks or savouries, uppuseedai, appam, bhel-mix, 
sev, gathiya, shankarpali, farsan, kurmura, murmura, papadi, crisps, chakli, etc. Also 
includes sweet snacks e.g. chikki, gajak, murrunda, gudchana, sugar coated dals and 
other sweet dal snacks (dals coated with jaggery, sugar, honey and other ingredients). 
 
15.2 Processed nuts, including coated nuts and nut mixtures  


<<<PAGE 61>>>
Includes all types of whole nuts processed by, e.g. dry-roasting, roasting, marinating 
or boiling, either in-shellor shelled, salted or unsalted. Yoghurt-, cereal-, and honey-
covered nuts, and dried fruit-nut-and-cereal snacks are classified here. 52[Chocolate-
covered nuts are classified in 5.1.3, and nuts covered in imitation chocolate are 
included in 5.1.4.] 
 
15.3 Snacks - fish based 
This describes savoury crackers with fish, fish products or fish flavouring. Dried fish 
per sethat may be consumed as a snack is assigned to food category 9.2.5, and dried 
meat snacks are assigned to food category 8.3.1.2. 
 
 
16.0 Prepared foods 
These foods are not included in the other food categories (1-15) and shall be 
considered on a case-bycasebasis. Prepared foods are mixtures of multiple 
components (e.g. meat, sauce, grain, cheese, vegetables); the components are 
included in other food categories. Prepared foods require minimal preparation by the 
consumer (e.g. heating, thawing, rehydrating).e.g. pav- bhaji, ready-to-eat dishes, 
biryani,curried rice, sandwiches (filling with egg /chicken/vegetarian sandwiches 
etc.), burgers, fish burgers, pizza etc. Provisions for additives will be listed in this 
food category in these regulations only if the additive is needed: (i) solely to have a 
technological function in the prepared food as sold to the consumer; or (ii) at a use 
level that has an intentional technological function in the prepared food that exceeds 
the use level that can be accounted for by carry-over from the individual components 
 
III FUNCTIONAL CLASSES, DEFINITIONS AND TECHNOLOGICAL 
PURPOSES 
 
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
1 
Acidity regulator 
A food additive, 
which controls 
the acidity or 
alkalinity of a 
food. 
Adjusting pH, acidity, alkalinity, and 
buffering activity.  


<<<PAGE 62>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
2 
Anti caking agent A food additive, 
which reduces 
the tendency of 
components of 
food to adhere 
to one another. 
Anticaking, anti-sticking, drying and 
dusting. 
3 
Antifoamin
g agent 
  
 
A food additive, 
which prevents 
or 
reduces 
foaming. 
Antifoaming and de-foaming. 
4 
Antioxidant  
 
A food additive, 
which prolongs 
the shelf-life of 
foods 
by 
protecting 
against 
deterioration 
caused 
by 
oxidation. 
Antioxidant, antioxidant synergist, and 
antibrowning. 
5 
Bleaching 
agent 
 
 
A food additive 
(non-flour use) 
used 
to 
decolorize food. 
Bleaching 
agents do not 
include 
pigments. 
Decolorising, and bleaching. 
 
6 
Bulking 
agent 
  
 
A food additive, 
which 
contributes 
to 
the bulk of a 
food 
without 
contributing 
Bulkingand filling. 


<<<PAGE 63>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
significantly to 
its 
available 
energy value. 
7 
Carbonating 
agent 
 
 
A food additive 
used to provide 
carbonation in a 
food. 
Providing carbon dioxide gas. 
8 
Carrier 
 
 
A food additive 
used 
to 
dissolve, dilute, 
disperse 
or 
otherwise 
physically 
modify a food 
additive 
or 
nutrient without 
altering 
its 
function 
(and 
without 
exerting 
any 
technological 
effect itself) in 
order 
to 
facilitate 
its 
handling, 
application 
or 
use of the food 
additive 
or 
nutrient. 
Carrier, diluent and encapsulation. 
9 
Colour   
 
A food additive, 
which adds or 
restores colour 
in a food. 
Colour, decorative pigment, surface 
colourant for eye appeal 


<<<PAGE 64>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
10 
Colour 
retention 
agent 
  
 
A food additive, 
which 
stabilizes, 
retains 
or 
intensifies 
the 
colour of a food 
Colour fixation/retention/ stabilization 
11 
Emulsifier   
 
A food additive, 
which forms or 
maintains 
a 
uniform 
emulsion of two 
or more phases 
in a food. 
Emulsification,plasticization,dispersio
n, 
surface 
action,inhibition 
of 
crystallization, 
density 
adjustment 
(flavouring 
oils 
in 
beverages), 
suspensionand clouding. 
12 
Emulsifying 
salt 
 
A food additive, 
which, in the 
manufacture of 
processed food, 
rearranges 
proteins 
in 
order to prevent 
fat separation. 
Prevention 
of 
fat 
separation, 
improving 
dispersion 
and 
blending/melding.  
13 
Firming 
agent 
 
A food additive, 
which makes or 
keeps tissues of 
fruit 
or 
vegetables firm 
and crisp, or 
interacts 
with 
gelling 
agents 
to produce or 
strengthen 
a 
gel. 
Texture retention and strengthening. 
 


<<<PAGE 65>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
14 
Flavour 
enhancer 
  
 
A food additive, 
which enhances 
the 
existing 
taste 
and/or 
odour of a food. 
Enhancement 
or 
potentiation 
of 
flavours.  
15 
Flour 
reatment 
agent 
 
 
A food additive, 
which is added 
to 
flour 
or 
dough 
to 
improve 
its 
baking quality 
or colour. 
Flour bleaching, improving, dough 
conditioning, and strengthening. 
16 
Foaming 
agent 
 
 
A food additive, 
which makes it 
possible to form 
or maintain a 
uniform 
dispersion of a 
gaseous 
phase 
in a liquid or 
solid food. 
Increased foaming, and aeration,  
17 
Gelling 
agent 
  
 
A food additive, 
which gives a 
food 
texture 
through 
formation of a 
gel. 
Gel formation 
18 
Glazing 
agent 
  
 
A food additive, 
which 
when 
applied to the 
external surface 
of 
a 
food, 
imparts a shiny 
Glazing, sealing, coating, surface-
finishing, polishing, andfilm-forming. 


<<<PAGE 66>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
appearance 
or 
provides 
a 
protective 
coating. 
19 
Humectant 
 
 
A food additive, 
which prevents 
food 
from 
drying out by 
counteracting 
the effect of a 
dry atmosphere. 
Moisture 
retentionand 
wetting. 
 
20 
Packaging 
gas 
  
 
A food additive 
gas, which is 
introduced into 
a 
container 
before, 
during 
or after filling 
with food with 
the intention to 
protect 
the 
food, 
for 
example, from 
oxidation 
or 
spoilage. 
Providing inert gaseous atmosphere in 
packages.  
21 
Preservative  
 
A food additive, 
which prolongs 
the shelf-life of 
a 
food 
by 
protecting 
against 
deterioration 
caused 
by 
microorganisms
Shelf 
life 
extension 
through 
antimicrobial action.  
 


<<<PAGE 67>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
. 
22 
Propellant   
 
A food additive 
gas, 
which 
expels a food 
from 
a 
container 
Expulsion of food from a container 
23 
Raising 
agent 
 
 
A food additive 
or 
a 
combination of 
food additives, 
which 
liberate(s) 
gas 
and 
thereby 
increase(s) the 
volume 
of 
a 
dough or batter. 
Providing volume and body/texture. 
24 
Sequestrant  
 
A food additive, 
which controls 
the availability 
of a cation. 
Chelation of ions.  
25 
Stabilizer   
 
A food additive, 
which makes it 
possible 
to 
maintain 
a 
uniform 
dispersion 
of 
two 
or 
more 
components. 
Stabilizing 
of 
foams/ 
colloids/ 
emulsions.  
26 
Sweetener  
 
A food additive 
(other than a 
mono- 
or 
disaccharide 
Reduction of energy as a 
substitute to mono or 
disaccharide sugars  
 


<<<PAGE 68>>>
Reno
. 
Functional 
Classes 
Definition 
Technological purpose 
sugar), 
which 
imparts a sweet 
taste to a food. 
27 
Thickener   
 
A food additive, 
which increases 
the viscosity of 
a food. 
Providing body and texture and 
binding 
 
IV. USE OF FOOD ADDITIVES IN FOOD PRODUCTS 
Food products may contain additives as specified in these regulations and in the 
following Tables. (All capital and bold additives in the Tables 1 to 15 refer to the 
Group of Additives listed with their INS Numbers in Annex-1) 
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.0 
Dairy 
products and 
analogues, 
excluding 
products 
of 
food category 
2.0 
  
  
  
  
1.1 
Milk 
and 
dairy-based 
drinks 
  
  
  
  
1.1.1 
Milk 
 
and 
buttermilk 
(plain) 
  
No additives permitted 
  


<<<PAGE 69>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.1.1.1 
Milk (plain) 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 33, 227 
1.1.1.2 
 Buttermilk 
(plain) 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 33 
1.1.2 
Dairy-based 
drinks 
- 
flavoured  
milk 
and/or 
fermented  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
52 
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
191 
Aspartame-
Acesulfame salt 
962 
350 mg/kg 
113 
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
100 mg/kg  
52 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
150 mg/kg 
52 
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
52, 170 
Caramel 
color 
(plain) 
150a 
GMP 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
2,000 mg/kg 52 
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
2,000 mg/kg 52 
Annatto  
160b(i), 
(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 52 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
 
50 mg/kg 
190, 52 


<<<PAGE 70>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
52 
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
150 mg/kg 
181, 52 
IRON OXIDES 
 
20 mg/kg 
52 
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
52 
Neotame 
961 
20 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,320 mg/kg 33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
3,000 mg/kg   
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg  
52 
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
  
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg   
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
52 
SACCHARINS 
 
80 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 220, 42 
Steviol glycosides 960 
200 mg/kg 
26, 201 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
300 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg   
Sunset 
yellow 110 
100 mg/kg 
52 


<<<PAGE 71>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
FCF 
Sodium 
aluminosilicate 
554 
60 mg/kg 
6, 253 
Hydroxy 
propyl 
methyl cellulose  
 464 
7.5 g/kg 
For 
flavoure
d 
milk 
only 
1.2 
Fermented 
and renneted 
milk products 
(plain), 
excluding 
food category 
01.1.2 (dairy-
based drinks), 
fermented 
milk 
products,yog
hurt, 
flavoured 
yoghurt, dahi, 
flavoured 
dahi,mishti 
dahi 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 33 
1.2.1 
Fermented 
milks (plain)* 
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
150 mg/kg 
 12 
*No additives permitted in Dahi or Curd 
 
 
Amendment for substitution of highlighted provision 
81[Omission of words ‘or Curd’]  
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st August, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 72>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.2.1.1 
Fermented 
milks (plain) 
not 
heat 
treated after 
fermentation 
 
No additives permitted 
 
1.2.1.2 
Fermented 
milks (plain) 
heat 
treated 
after 
fermentation 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol  
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
Acetic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472a 
GMP 
234 
Acid 
treated 
starch 
1401 
GMP 
234 
Alkaline 
treated 
starch  
1402 
GMP 
234 
Bleached starch  
1403 
GMP 
234 
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
234 
Glucono 
delta-
lactone 
575 
GMP 
  
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
234 
Gum 
arabic 
(Acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
234 
Hydroxypropyl 
cellulose 
463 
GMP 
234 
Hydroxypropyl 
methyl cellulose 
464 
GMP 
234 
Hydroxypropyl 
starch 
1440 
GMP 
234 
Karaya gum 
416 
GMP 
234 
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
234 


<<<PAGE 73>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Lactic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
234 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
chloride 
511 
GMP 
234 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
528 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
carbonate 
504(ii) 
GMP 
  
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
  
Methyl cellulose 
461 
GMP 
234 
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose 
465 
GMP 
234 
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
(Cellulose gel) 
460(i) 
GMP 
234 
Mono 
and 
di 
glycerides of fatty 
acids   
471 
GMP 
234 
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
59 
Nitrous oxide 
942 
GMP 
59 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
234 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
234 
Ammonium 
alginate 
403 
GMP 
234 
Ammonium 
hydroxide 
527 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 74>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Calcium alginate 
404 
GMP 
234 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
  
Calcium 
hydroxide 
526 
GMP 
  
Calcium lactate 
327 
GMP 
  
Calcium oxide 
529 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
59 
Carob bean gum 
410 
GMP 
234 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Citric and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472c 
GMP 
234 
Potassium 
alginate 
402 
GMP 
234 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
GMP 
234 
Potassium 
dihydrogen citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
234 
Potassium lactate 
326 
GMP 
  
Powdered 
cellulose 
460(ii) 
GMP 
  
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(i) 
GMP 
234 


<<<PAGE 75>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Salts of oleic acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(ii) 
GMP 
234 
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP 
234 
Sodium carbonate 500(i) 
GMP 
  
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
234 
Sodium 
dihydrogen citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
234 
Sodium hydrogen 
carbonate 
500(ii) 
GMP 
  
Sodium hydroxide 524 
GMP 
  
Sodium lactate 
325 
GMP 
  
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
234 
Tragacanth gum 
413 
GMP 
234 
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
234 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
234 
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
GMP 
  
Caramel 
colour 
(Plain) Caramel I 
150a 
150 mg/kg 
  
Annatto  
160b(i), 
(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
INS 
160f 
only 
in 
flavoure
d 
and 


<<<PAGE 76>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
fruit 
yoghurt 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
  
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigocarmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
3 
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
1.2.2 
Renneted 
milk (plain) 
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
GMP 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol  
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 42 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
59 
Lecithins 
322(i),(
ii) 
GMP 
  
Carob bean gum 
410 
GMP 
  
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
  
Gum 
arabic 
(Acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 77>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Mannitol 
421 
GMP 
  
Glycerol 
422 
GMP 
  
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
(Cellulose gel) 
460(i) 
GMP 
  
Methyl cellulose 
461 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
cellulose 
463 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
methyl cellulose 
464 
GMP 
  
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose 
465 
GMP 
  
Acetic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472a 
GMP 
  
Lactic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
  
Citric and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472c 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
chloride 
511 
GMP 
  
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
  
Dextrins, roasted 
starch 
1400 
GMP 
  
Acid-treated 
starch 
1401 
GMP 
  
Alkaline 
treated 
starch 
1402 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 78>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Bleached starch 
1403 
GMP 
  
Oxidized starch 
1404 
GMP 
  
Monostarch 
phosphate 
1410 
GMP 
  
Distarch 
phosphate 
1412 
GMP 
  
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP 
  
Acetylated 
distarch adipate 
1422 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
starch 
1440 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
distarch 
phosphate 
1442 
GMP 
  
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1413 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
dihydrogen citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  
Powdered 
cellulose 
460(ii) 
GMP 
  
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
470(i) 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 79>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
sodium 
Salts of oleic acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(ii) 
GMP 
  
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Starch acetate 
1420 
GMP 
  
Starch 
sodium 
octenyl succinate 
1450 
GMP 
  
Starches, enzyme 
treated 
1405 
GMP 
  
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
  
Tragacanth gum 
413 
GMP 
  
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
  
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
  
1.3 
Condensed 
/evaporated 
milk 
and 
analogues 
(plain) 
  
 
 
 
1.3.1 
Condensed 
milk (plain), 
evaporated 
milk(s), 
sweetened 
condensed 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
2,000 mg/kg 
singly 
or 
3,000 mg/kg 
in 
combination 
Total 
salt 
content 
shall not 
exceed 
3,000 
Sodium citrates 
331 
Potassium citrates 332 
Calcium citrates      333 
PHOSPHATES 
 


<<<PAGE 80>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
milk(s) 
Sodium carbonate 500(i) 
mg/kg 
calculate
d 
as 
phospho
horus/ca
rbonates   
/citrate/ 
chloride 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
Potassium 
chloride  
508 
Calcium chloride 
509 
Glucono 
delta 
lactone 
575 
GMP 
Permitte
d 
 
in 
khoya 
only 
Propionic 
acid; 
sodium 
and 
calcium 
propionate 
expressed 
as 
propionic 
acid 
(singly or  in 
combination) 
280, 
281, 
282 
2,000 mg/kg Permitte
d 
 
in 
khoya 
only 
SORBATES 
 
2,000 mg/kg Permitte
d 
in  
khoya 
only 
Nisin 
234 
12.5 mg/kg 
Permitte
d 
in  
khoya 
only 
Carrageenan 
407 
150 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 81>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.3.2 
Beverage 
whitener 
 
  
 
  
1.3.2.1 
Non 
dairy 
based 
beverage 
whitener        
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
80 mg/kg 
10 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
2,000 mg/kg 188 
Aspartame 
951 
6,000 mg/kg 191 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
1,000 mg/kg  
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,000 mg/kg  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg  
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
13,000 
mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
4,000 mg/kg   
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
1,000 mg/kg   
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
   
SORBATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
42 
Sodium alumino 554 
570 mg/kg 
260, 6 


<<<PAGE 82>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
silicate 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
580 mg/kg 
  
Sucroglycerides 
474 
20,000 
mg/kg 
  
Tertiary 
butylhydroquinon
e (TBHQ) 
319 
100 mg/kg 
15, 195 
1.4 
Cream (plain) 
and the like 
cream 
and  
malai 
 
 
 
 
1.4.1 
Pasteurized 
cream (plain), 
cream 
and  
 malai 
No additives permitted 
 
1.4.2 
Sterilized and 
UHT creams, 
whipping and 
whipped 
creams, 
and 
reduced 
fat 
creams 
(plain) 
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
1,000 mg/kg   
Acetic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472a 
GMP 
  
Acetylated 
distarch adipate 
1422 
GMP 
  
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP 
  
Acid-treated 
starch 
1401 
GMP 
236 


<<<PAGE 83>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Agar 
406 
GMP 
  
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
  
Ammonium 
alginate 
403 
GMP 
  
Bleached starch 
1403 
GMP 
236 
Calcium alginate 
404 
GMP 
  
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
  
Calcium chloride 
509 
GMP 
  
Calcium lactate 
327 
GMP 
  
Calcium sulfate 
516 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
278, 59 
Carob bean gum 
410 
GMP 
  
Carrageenan 
407 
GMP 
  
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Citric and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472c 
GMP 
  
Dextrins, roasted 
starch 
1400 
GMP 
236 
Diacetyltarteric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
6,000 mg/kg   
Distarch 
phosphate 
1412 
GMP 
  
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
  
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
  
Gum 
arabic 
(Acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
463 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 84>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
cellulose 
Hydroxypropyl 
distarch 
phosphate 
1442 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
methyl cellulose 
464 
GMP 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
starch 
1440 
GMP 
  
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
236 
Lactic acid, L-, D- 
and DL- 
270 
GMP 
  
Lactic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
  
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
  
Methyl cellulose 
461 
GMP 
  
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose 
465 
GMP 
  
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
(Cellulose gel) 
460(i) 
GMP 
  
Mono- 
and 
di-
glycerides of fatty 
acids 
471 
GMP 
  
Monostarch 
phosphate 
1410 
GMP 
  
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
278, 59 
Nitrous oxide 
942 
GMP 
278, 59 
Oxidized starch 
1404 
GMP 
236 


<<<PAGE 85>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1413 
GMP 
  
Polydextroses 
1200 
GMP 
236 
Potassium 
alginate 
402 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
chloride 
508 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
dihydrogen citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
hydrogen 
carbonate 
501(ii) 
GMP 
  
Potassium lactate 
326 
GMP 
  
Powdered 
cellulose 
460(ii) 
GMP 
  
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
407a 
GMP 
  
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP 
  
Sodium carbonate 500(i) 
GMP 
  
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium hydrogen 
carbonate 
500(ii) 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 86>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Sodium lactate 
325 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
sesquicarbonate 
500(iii) 
GMP 
  
Starch acetate 
1420 
GMP 
  
Starch 
sodium 
octenyl succinate 
1450 
GMP 
  
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
236 
Tragacanth gum 
413 
GMP 
236 
Tricalcium citrate 
333(iii) 
GMP 
  
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
  
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
  
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
  
1.4.3 
Clotted cream 
(plain) 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
 5,000 mg/kg   
Nisin 
234 
10 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
1,000 mg/kg   
1.4.4 
Cream 
analogues 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 188 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 191 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
20 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
5,000 mg/kg   
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
5,000 mg/kg   


<<<PAGE 87>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 20 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
6,000 mg/kg   
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
150 mg/kg 
181, 201 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg   
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg 86 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
580 mg/kg 
 
1.5 
Milk powder 
and 
cream 
powder 
and 
powder 
analogues 
(plain) 
  
 
 
 
1.5.1 
Milk powder 
and 
cream 
powder 
(plain) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500mg/kg 
10 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
100mg/kg 
15, 196 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
321 
200mg/kg 
15, 196 


<<<PAGE 88>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
(BHT) 
Calcium 
aluminium silicate 
556 
 265 mg/kg 
6, 259 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/Kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg  33 
Polydimethylsilox
ane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
  
Sodium alumino 
silicate 
554 
265 mg/kg 
  
Sucroglycerides 
474 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
1.5.1.1 
Dairy 
baseddairy 
whitener        
 
 
 
 
1.5.2 
Powder 
analogues  
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
 80 mg/kg 
10 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 188 
Aspartame 
951 
2,000 mg/kg 191 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
209 
Calcium 
aluminium silicate 
556 
570 mg/kg 
6, 259 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
5,000 mg/kg   
Caramel 
IV 
- 150d 
5,000 mg/kg   


<<<PAGE 89>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg   
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
150 mg/kg 
201, 
209, 181 
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
4,400 mg/kg 
52[88, 
33] 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
4,000 mg/kg   
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
GMP 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
Sodium alumino 
silicate 
554 
570 mg/kg 
6, 259 
Steviol glycosides 960 
330 mg/kg 
26, 201 
1.6 
Cheese 
and 
analogues 
 
  
  
  
1.6.1 
Unripened 
cheese 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 191 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
 
50 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 90>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
COMPLEXES 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
201 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
15,000 
mg/kg 
201 
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
201 
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
3 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
80, 3 
PHOSPHATES 
 
4,400 mg/kg 33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
80 mg/kg 
38 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
3 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 91>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
SORBATES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 42, 223 
(for 
channa 
and 
paneer 
only) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nisin 
 234 
12.5 mg/kg  
 (for 
channa 
and 
paneer 
only) 
 
 
 
Propionic 
acid, 
sodium 
propionate, 
 280,  
281,  
282,  
3,000 mg/kg (for 
channa 
and 
Amendment of highlighted 
provision 
82[Omission of highlighted 
provision] 
 
[This amendment shall come 
into force on 1st September, 
2023] 
Amendment for substitution 
of highlighted provision 
82[233] 
 
[This amendment shall come 
into force on 1st September, 
2023] 


<<<PAGE 92>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
calcium 
propionate,  
283 
paneer 
only) 
(singly 
or 
in 
combina
tion, 
expresse
d 
as 
propioni
c acid) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glucono 
delta 
lactone 
 575 
GMP  
 (for 
channa 
and 
paneer 
only) 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
3 
Calcium chloride 
509 
200 mg/kg  
 Except 
cream 
cheese 
Amendment for substitution 
of highlighted provision 
82[233] 
 
[This amendment shall come 
into force on 1st September, 
2023] 


<<<PAGE 93>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 600 mg/kg  
 Except 
coulom
miers 
Carrageenan 
407 
5,000 mg/kg   For 
cream 
cheese 
only 
Alginate 
of 
sodium/potassium
/calcium 
401,402
, 404 
5,000 mg/kg  For 
cream 
cheese 
only 
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
405 
5000 mg/kg 
 
 
 
Paprika extract  
160c 
GMP 
  
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
  
Annatto  
52[160b
(i) and 
(ii)] 
GMP 
  
1.6.2 
Ripened 
cheese, 
(Cheddar,Da
nbo,Edam,Go
uda,Havarti,
Tilisiter,Cam
embert, 
Brie,St 
Paulin, 
Samsoe,Emm
entaler, 
Provolone,ext
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
201 
Lysozyme 
1105 
GMP 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
3, 80 
Nisin 
234 
12 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 42 
Calcium chloride 
509 
200 mg/kg  
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
  
300 mg/kg  
  
Sodium salts of 
mono/di/poly 
phosphoric acid 
339, 
450(i, 
ii, 
iii) 
451(i),4
 
 
 
 
Total 
salt 
content 
should 


<<<PAGE 94>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
ra 
hard 
grating 
/sliced/cut/shr
eded cheese) 
52(i) 
 
 
9,000 mg/kg  
not 
exceed 
9000 
mg/kg 
calculate
d 
as 
phospho
horus/ca
rbonates   
/citrate/ 
chloride 
Potassium salts of 
mono/di/poly 
phosphoric acid 
340, 
450 
(iv), 
(v), 
451(ii), 
452(ii) 
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg  
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 100 mg/kg  
  
Annatto extracts, 
norbixin-based 
160b(ii) 100 mg/kg  
  
Annatto extracts, 
bixin-based 
160b(i) 
50 mg/kg  
Normal 
to 
orange 
colour 
Propionic 
acid, 
sodium 
propionate, 
calcium 
propionate,  
280,  
281,  
282,  
283 
3,000 mg/kg Singly 
or 
in 
combina
tion, 
expresse
d 
as 
propioni
c acid 
69[****] 
 
 
 
Paprika extract 
160c 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 95>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.6.2.1 
Ripened 
cheese 
includes rind 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
 500 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
15 mg/kg 
  
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 600 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Hexamethylene 
tetramine 
239 
25 mg/kg 
 52[66, 
298] 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Lysozyme 
1105 
GMP 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
  
Nisin 
234 
12 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
1.6.2.2 
Rind 
of Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 96>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
ripened 
cheese 
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg   
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg   
IRON OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Lysozyme 
1105 
GMP 
  
Microcrystalline 
wax 
905c(i) 
30,000 
mg/kg 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
  
Nisin 
234 
12 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg  
Sunset 
yellow 110 
100 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 97>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
FCF 
1.6.2.3 
Cheese 
powder  
CAROTENOID 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
201 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg   
Lysozyme 
1105 
GMP 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
3, 80 
Nisin 
234 
12 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 42 
1.6.3 
Whey cheese 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 42 
1.6.4 
Processed 
cheese 
  
  
  
  
1.6.4.1 
Plain 
processed 
cheese/              
processed 
cheese, 
 processed 
cheese 
spreads 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg   
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 


<<<PAGE 98>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
PARA- 
IRON OXIDES 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
80,3 
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
9,000 mg/kg  
69[33] 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,600 mg/kg 251, 6 
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 42 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
3 
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg 
  
Chlorophyll 
140 
100 mg/kg 
  
Annatto  
160(b) 
(i), (ii) 
50 mg/kg  
  
Nisin 
234 
12.5 mg/kg 
  
1.6.4.2 
Flavoured 
processed 
cheese, 
including 
containing 
fruit, 
vegetables, 
meat etc. 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 99>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
72 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg   
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg   
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
IRON OXIDES 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
3, 80 
PHOSPHATES 
 
9,000 mg/kg  33 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATES 
  
1600 mg/kg 
251, 6 
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 42 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 100>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.6.5 
Cheese 
analogues 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
3 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 191 
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
100 mg/kg 
3 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
201 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 3 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg   
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
500 mg/kg 
27,  
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 243 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 101>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
ethyl ester 
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
3, 80 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
 
Nisin 
234 
12 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
9,000 mg/kg Insertion 
of 
Provisio
n 
 
82[33] 
 
[This 
amendm
ent shall 
come 
into force 
on 
1st 
Septemb
er, 2023] 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
3 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARINS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 42 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
500 mg/kg 
 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
3 
1.6.6 
Whey protein 
cheese 
Acetic 
acid, 
glacial 
260 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 102>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Calcium 
propionate 
282 
3,000 mg/kg 70 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Glucono 
delta-
lactone 
575 
GMP 
  
Lactic acid, L-, D- 
and DL- 
270 
GMP 
  
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
40 mg/kg 
80,3 
Nisin 
234 
12 mg/kg 
  
Propionic acid 
280 
3,000 mg/kg   
SORBATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 70, 42 
Sodium 
propionate 
281 
3,000 mg/kg 70 
1.7 
Dairy 
based 
desserts 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10, 2 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Ammonium salts 
of 
phosphatidic 
acid 
442 
5,000 mg/kg 231 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
350 mg/kg 
113 
BENZOATES 
 
300 mg/kg 
13 
Butylated 
320 
200 mg/kg 
Only for 


<<<PAGE 103>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
rasgulla 
dry 
mixes 
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
2,000 mg/kg   
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
3,000 mg/kg   
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg   
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
2 
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 
200 mg/kg 
181 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
120 mg/kg 
27 
  
IRON OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 243 
200 mg/kg 
170 


<<<PAGE 104>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
ethyl ester 
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
3,000 mg/kg   
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
 
Propyl gallate 
310 
90 mg/kg 
15, 2 
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg   
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARINS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 42 
Steviol glycosides 960 
330 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg  
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
405 
GMP 
  
Polyoxyethylene 
sorbitan tristearate 
 436 
GMP 
  
Poly 
glycerol 
esters of fatty acid 
 475 
GMP 
  
Polyoxyethylene 
sorbyton 
mono 
Laureate 
 432 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 105>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Polyoxyethylene 
sorbyton 
monosterate 
 435 
GMP 
  
Distarch glycerol 
 1411 
GMP 
  
Distarch glycerol 
acetylated 
 1432 
GMP 
  
Distarch glycerol 
hydroxypropyl 
 1443 
GMP 
  
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
460 (i) 
10, 
000 
mg/kg 
  
TARTRATES 
  
1,000 mg/kg   
Curcumin 
100  
100 mg/kg  
  
Annatto  
160 
b(i), (ii) 
100 mg/kg 
  
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
 
73[TOCOPHERO
LS 
 
500 mg/kg 
 XS243] 
 
1.8 
Whey 
and 
whey 
products 
excluding 
whey cheeses 
  
  
  
 
1.8.1 
Liquid whey 
and 
whey 
products 
excluding 
whey cheeses 
Benzoyl peroxide 
928 
100 mg/kg 
74 
PHOSPHATES 
 
880 mg/kg 
33, 228 


<<<PAGE 106>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
1.8.2 
52[Dried whey 
and 
whey 
products, 
excluding 
whey cheeses] 
Benzoyl peroxide 
928 
100 mg/kg 
147 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Calcium chloride 
509 
GMP 
  
Calcium 
hydroxide 
526 
GMP 
  
Calcium silicate 
552 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Hydroxypropyl 
distarch 
phosphate 
1442 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Magnesium oxide 530 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Magnesium 
silicate, synthetic 
553(i) 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
(Cellulose gel) 
460(i) 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
4,400 mg/kg 33 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
chloride 
508 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
dihydrogen citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
hydrogen 
carbonate 
501(ii) 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 107>>>
Table 1 
Dairy products and analogues, excluding products of category 2.0 
Food 
Categor
y System 
(1) 
Food 
Category 
Name              
(2)  
Food Additive 
(3) 
INS 
No.    
(4) 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum 
Level            
(5) 
Note      
(6) 
Potassium 
hydroxide 
525 
GMP 
  
Powdered 
cellulose 
460(ii) 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Silicon 
dioxide, 
amorphous 
551 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
aluminosilicate 
554 
1,140 mg/kg 6 
Sodium carbonate 500(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium hydrogen 
carbonate 
500(ii) 
GMP 
  
Sodium hydroxide 524 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
sesquicarbonate 
500(iii) 
GMP 
  
Talc 
553(iii) 
10,000 
mg/kg 
  
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
  
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
  
 
 
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  


<<<PAGE 108>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
2.0 
Fats and oils, 
and 
fat 
emulsions 
 
 
 
 
2.1 
Fats and oils 
essentially  
free 
from 
water 
 
 
 
 
2.1.1 
Butter 
oil, 
anhydrous 
milk fat and 
ghee 
(no 
additives 
in 
case of ghee) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg  
10,171 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
175mg/kg 
15, 
171, 
133 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
75mg/kg 
15, 
171, 
133 
Propyl gallate 
310 
100 mg/kg  
15, 
133, 
171 
Gallate(octyl/ 
ethyl/dodecyl ) 
311, 
313, 
312 
100 mg/kg 
  
Citric acid 
330 
GMP                 
171 
2.1.2 
69[Vegetable 
oils, fats and 
bakery 
shortenings] 
Lecithins 
69[322 
(i), 322 
(ii)] 
GMP 
  
Ascorbic acid 
300 
GMP 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
52[TOCOPHE
ROLS 
 
GMP 
  
ASCORBYL 
 
500mg/kg] 


<<<PAGE 109>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
ESTERS 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Citric acid 
330,  
GMP 
15, 
277 
Tartric acid 
334 
GMP 
15, 
277 
Guaiac resin 
 314 
1,000 mg/kg 
TBHQ 
319 
200 mg/kg 
15 
,130 
Sodium citrate 
69[331(i
)] 
GMP 
  
Isopropyl 
citrate mixture 
384 
200 mg/kg 
  
69[Citric 
and 
fatty acid esters 
of glycerol] 
472c 
100 mg/kg  
 Singl
y or in 
combi
nation 
Phosphoric 
acid 
338 
100 mg/kg 
 Singl
y or in 
combi
nation 
Polydimethylsi
loxane  
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
25 mg/kg 
232 


<<<PAGE 110>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
DS 
Diacetyltartaric 
acid and fatty 
acid esters of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
102 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Stearyl citrate 
484 
GMP 
  
THIODIPRO
PIONATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
46 
69[Lactic 
and 
fatty acid esters 
of glycerol 
472b 
10,000 mg/kg 
408 
Mono 
and 
diglycerides of 
fatty acids   
471 
GMP 
408 
Polyglycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid   
475 
5,000 mg/kg 
408] 
2.1.3 
Lard, tallow, 
fish oil, and 
other animal 
fats 
(edible 
fats) 
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP  
  
Ascorbic acid 
300 
GMP  
 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
GMP  
  
 
 
Amendment for substitution of highlighted provision 
Recommended Maximum Level 
(5) 
Note 
 (6) 
81[300 mg/kg 
358] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st August, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 111>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
 
 
 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP  
  
Tartric acid 
334 
GMP 
 
Guaiac resin 
 314 
1,000 mg/kg 
TBHQ 
319 
200 mg/kg 
 
15,130 
Sodium citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP  
  
Phosphoric 
acid 
338 
100 mg/kg  
  
Dimethyl 
polysiloxane  
900a 
10 mg/kg 
Singly 
or 
in 
combi
nation 
with 
silicon 
dioxid
e 
Silicon dioxide 551 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
161a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
25 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 112>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
acid 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
132 
100 mg/kg 
Isopropyl 
citrate mixture 
384 
200 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
102 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Stearyl citrate 
484 
GMP 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
THIODIPRO
PIONATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
46 
2.2 
Fat emulsions 
mainly 
of 
type 
water-
in-oil 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1 
Butter 
(Butter 
and 
Milk Fat) 
Curcumin 
 100 
100 mg/kg  
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 600 mg/kg 
  
Annatto  
160b(i),
(ii) 
20 mg/kg 
8 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
35 mg/kg 
146, 
291 
Sodium 
hydroxide 
524 
 
  


<<<PAGE 113>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
GMP 
Calcium 
hydroxide 
526 
 
PHOPHATES  
880 mg/kg 
 33, 34 
Sodium 
carbonate 
500(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
hydrogen 
carbonate 
500(ii) 
GMP 
  
2.2.2 
69[Fat 
spreads, 
dairy 
fat 
spreads 
and 
blended 
spreads 
(margarine 
and 
fat 
spreads)] 
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP  
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
Tocopherols 
307a,b,c GMP    
  
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Tartric acid 
334 
GMP  
  
Guaiac resin 
 314 
1,000 mg/kg 
TBHQ 
319 
200 mg/kg 
 15, 
130 
Isopropyl 
citrate mixture 
384 
100 mg/kg  
  


<<<PAGE 114>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10 g/kg    
  
1,2 -propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
20g/kg   
  
52[SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
 10,000 mg/kg 
 359] 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
10,000mg/kg 
102 
SORBATES 
69[1,000 mg/kg] 
42 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000mg/kg   
  
Annatto  
160b 
20 mg/kg  
  
Curcumin  
100 
5 mg/kg  
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
35 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
69[50 mg/kg] 
21 
BENZOATES 
1,000mg/kg 
13 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
214, 
215 
Caramel III -
Ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
500 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 115>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
Caramel 
IV-
Sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
500 mg/kg 
214 
HYDROXY 
BENZOATES
, PARA 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
Lauric alginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
214, 
215 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsi
loxane  
900a 
10 mg/kg 
152 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
102 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
Stearyl citrate 
484 
100 mg/kg 
15 
STEAROYL 
LACTYLATE
S 
481(i), 
482(i) 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Thermally 
oxidized soya 
bean 
oil 
interacted with 
mono- 
and 
diglycerides of 
fatty acids 
479 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
THIODIPRO
PIONATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
46 
52[Sucrose 
oligoesters, 
473a 
10,000 mg/kg 
348, 
360 


<<<PAGE 116>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
Type 
I 
and 
Type II 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acids 
473 
10,000 mg/kg 
348, 
360 
Poly 
glycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
5,000 mg/kg 
359] 
2.3 
Fat emulsions 
mainly 
of 
type 
oil-in-
water, 
including 
mixed and/or 
flavoured 
products 
based on fat 
emulsions 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
188 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Canthaxanthhi
n 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 117>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES,
PARA - 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
Indigotine 
(indigo 
caramine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Neotame 
961 
10 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
102 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
30,000 mg/kg 
  
 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
52[Poly 
glycerol esters 
of fatty acid 
475 
20,000 mg/kg 
363 
Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
STEAROYL 
LACTYLATE
S 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
SORBITAN 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
363 


<<<PAGE 118>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acids  
473 
5,000 mg/kg 
363, 
102] 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
10,000 mg/kg 
102 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one 
319 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
2.4 
Fat-based 
desserts 
excluding 
dairy-based 
dessert 
products 
of 
food category 
1.7 
(frozen 
desserts/froze
n confections) 
Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
10 g/kg 
  
Polyglycerol 
esters of fatty 
acids 
475 
10 g/kg 
  
Polyoxethylene 
sorbitian 
monolaureate 
432 
10 g/kg 
  
Polyoxethylene 
sorbitian  
tristearate 
436 
10 g/kg 
  
Polyoxethylene 
sorbitian 
monolstearate 
435 
10 g/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Sucralose  
955 
400 mg/kg 
Curcumin  
100 
100 mg/kg  
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
Annatto  
160b 
100 mg/kg  
  


<<<PAGE 119>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
Beta apo -8- 
carotenal 
160e 
100 mg/kg  
  
  
Methyl ester of 
beta apo- 8-
carotenal 
160f 
Caramel color - 
ammonium 
sulphite 
process 
150d 
3 g/kg  
  
TARTRATES 
1 g/kg  
  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
 188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg  
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
304, 
305 
80 mg/kg 
10 
Aspartame- 
acesulfame salt 962 
350 mg/kg 
113  
BENZOATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg  
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
130, 
15 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
100 mg/kg  
  
Caramel III - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
 
150 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 120>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
DS 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEX 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
estract 
163(ii) 
200 mg/kg 
181 
Indigotine 
(indigo 
caramine) 
132 
100 mg/kg  
  
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
350 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
102 
Ponceau 4R  
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
100 mg/kg 


<<<PAGE 121>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
S 
SORBATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
50 mg/kg 
  
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one 
319 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
2.4.1 
Cocoa based 
spreads 
including 
fillings 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
188 
75[Omitted] 
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
1,500 mg/kg 
13 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
ACSCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10, 
15,114 
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
2,000 mg/kg 
3 
Mineral 
oil, 
medium 
and 
low viscosity, 
class I 
905e 
2,000 mg/kg 
3 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
50 mg/kg 
21 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 


<<<PAGE 122>>>
Table 2 
Fats and oils, and fat emulsions 
Food 
Category 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum Level Note  
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
880 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
to sucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
169 
 
Table 3 
Edible ice, including sorbet 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum level Notes 
3.0 
Edible 
ices, 
including 
sorbet 
(ice 
candy) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
10,15 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
800 mg/kg 
188 
75[Omitted] 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
195, 15 


<<<PAGE 123>>>
Table 3 
Edible ice, including sorbet 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum level Notes 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
100mg/kg 
195, 15 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
GMP 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
181 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
300 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 124>>>
Table 3 
Edible ice, including sorbet 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum level Notes 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
7,500 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100mg/kg 
 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
 52[5,000 
mg/Kg] 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
320 mg/kg 
  
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
15 , 195 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol alginate 
 405 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
 Polyglycerol 
esters of fattty 
acids 
475 
10,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 125>>>
Table 3 
Edible ice, including sorbet 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No Recommended 
Maximum level Notes 
Polyoxyethylen
e 
sorbitan 
monolaureate 
432 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Polyoxyethylen
e 
sorbitan 
tristearate 
436 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Polyoxyethylen
e 
sorbitan 
monostearate 
 435 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin 
 100 
100 mg/kg   
  
Annatto  
 160b 
100 mg/kg  
  
Canthaxanthin 
 161g 
100mg/kg 
  
Carmoisine 
 122 
100mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
 127 
50mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
 102 
100mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine)  
 132 
100mg/kg 
  
TARTRATES 
1 g/kg  
  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
170 mg/kg 
26 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 126>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
4.0 
Fruits 
and 
vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, pulses 
and 
legumes 
and aloe vera), 
sea 
weeds, 
nuts and seeds 
 
 
 
 
4.1 
Fruits 
 
 
 
 
4.1.1 
Fresh fruits 
No additives permitted 
  
4.1.1.1 
Untreated 
fresh fruits 
No additives permitted 
  
4.1.1.2 
Surface-
treated 
fresh 
fruits 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
  
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
  
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
  
Glycerol ester 
of wood rosin 
445(iii) 
110 mg/kg 
  
IRON OXIDE 
1,000 mg/kg 
4 
Microcrystallin
e wax 
905c(i) 
50 mg/kg 
  
ortho-
Phenylphenol 
231 
12 mg/kg 
49 
  
Sodium ortho-
phenylphenol 
232 
Polyethylene 
glycol 
1521 
GMP 
  
Polyvinylpyrro
1201 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 127>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
lidone 
SULFITES 
30 mg/kg 
  
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
  
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
GMP 
  
4.1.1.3 
52[Peeled 
or 
cut minimally 
processed 
fruits] 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 290 
GMP 
59 
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
59 
Nitrous oxide 
942 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
ascorbate 
303 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
ascorbate  
301 
GMP 
  
Calcium 
chloride,  
 509 
350 mg/kg 
  
Calcium lactate 327 
Calcium 
gluconate 
578 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
 
 
52[Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
 
Ascorbic acid 
300 
GMP 
 
Potassium 
carbonate  
501 
GMP] 
 
4.1.2 
Processed 
fruits 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
  
SULFITES 
500 mg/kg 
  
4.1.2.1 
Frozen fruits 
SULFITES 
 
500 mg/kg 
44, 155 
4.1.2.2 
Dried 
fruits, 
nuts and seeds 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
80 mg/kg 
10 


<<<PAGE 128>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
BENZOATES 
800 mg/kg 
13 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
  
265 mg/kg 
  
21 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA 
 
800 mg/kg 
27 
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Mineral 
oil, 
medium 
viscosity, class 
I 
905e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Calcium 
phosphate 
341(i) 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Magnesium 
phosphate 
343(ii) 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
44, 135, 
218 
Tartaric acid, L 
(+) 
334 
GMP 
  
4.1.2.3 
Fruit 
in 
vinegar, oil, or 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
200 mg/kg 
188 


<<<PAGE 129>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
brine 
Aspartame 
951 
300 mg/kg 
144, 191 
BENZOATES 
250 mg/kg 
13 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
and 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
200 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,500 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 130>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA 
 
250 mg/kg 
27 
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
  
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
160 mg/kg 
144 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
180 mg/kg 
144 
4.1.2.4 
Canned 
or 
bottled 
(pasteurized) 
fruit 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Annatto 
160b 
200  mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 962 
350 mg/kg 
113 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
200 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
  
Carmoisine 
122 
200 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
 
100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 131>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
COMPLEXE
S 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
200 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin  
100 
200 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
Dimethyl 
polysiloxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
200 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARIN
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Stannous 
chloride 
512 
20 mg/kg 
43 
Tartrazine 
102 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 132>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
100 mg/kg 
26 
Saffron 
GMP 
4.1.2.5 
Jams, 
jellies, 
marmalades 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
188 
75[Omitted] 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160b 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 962 
1,000 mg/kg 
113 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
  
BENZOATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
200 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
150c 
200 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 133>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
caramel 
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
Carmoisine 
122 
200 mg/kg 
  
Carnauba wax 
903 
 400 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
  
Dimethylpolysi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg. 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
130 mg/kg 
21 
Erythrosine 
127 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
200 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES 
PARA- 
 
250 mg/kg 
27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
70 mg/kg 
Polydimethylsi
900a 
30 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 134>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
loxane 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
100 mg/kg 
44 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
360 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Tartaric acid, L 
(+) 
334 
GMP 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
200 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
4.1.2.6 
Fruit-based 
spreads 
(e.g. 
chutney) 
excluding 
products 
of 
food category 
4.1.2.5 
Annatto 
160b 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES 
250 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLIN,COPP
ER 
COMPLEXE
 
150  mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 135>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
S 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
500 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 500 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
100 mg/kg 
21 
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATE 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 136>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
carmine) 
Neotame 
961 
70 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,100 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
 
Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
GMP 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Tartaric acid, L 
(+) 
334 
GMP 
  
Ascorbyl 
Palmitate 
304 
200 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
TBHQ 
 319 
200 mg/kg 
  
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
GMP 
  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
330 mg/kg 
26 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
500 mg/kg 
188 
4.1.2.7 
Candied 
/ 
glazed 
/ 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
Annatto 
160b 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 137>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
crystallised 
fruit including  
murrabba* 
Aspartame 
951 
2,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
200 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
250 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
200 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin  
100 
200 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
200 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 138>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES 
PARA 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
250 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
10 mg/kg 
33 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg and 
40 mg/kg  (for 
murabba) 
44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
800 mg/kg 
 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
200 mg/kg 
  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
500 mg/kg 
188 
Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
  
*No sweeteners and colours permitted in murrabba 
4.1.2.8 
Fruit 
preparations, 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 


<<<PAGE 139>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
including fruit 
pulp, purees, 
fruit toppings 
and 
coconut 
milk 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 962 
350 mg/kg 
113 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Annatto  
160b(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS  
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 100 mg/kg 
 182 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 140>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES  
PARA- 
 
800 mg/kg 
27 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
350 mg/kg 
33 
Paprika 
oleoresin 
160c(i) 
GMP 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg 
 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg  
42 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
154 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
206, 44 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
330 mg/kg 
26 


<<<PAGE 141>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
52[SORBITA
N 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS314R, 
XS240 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acids  
473 
1,500 mg/kg 
348, 
XS314R] 
4.1.2.9 
Fruit-based 
desserts 
including 
fruit-
flavoured 
water-based 
desserts 
Tartaric acid, L 
(+) 
334 
GMP 
  
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS  
 
500 mg/kg 
2, 10 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 962 
350 mg/kg 
113 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOI
DS  
 
150 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
150 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 142>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
200 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES  
PARA- 
 
800 mg/kg 
27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
PHOSPAHTE
S 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
33 
SORBATES 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
110 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 143>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
90 mg/kg 
2, 15 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
50 mg/kg 
 
Steviol 
glycoside 
960 
350 mg/kg 
26 
4.1.2.10 
Fermented 
fruit products 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINSCOP
PER 
 
100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 144>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
COMPLEXE
S 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 200 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
800 mg/kg 
27 
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
Polydimethysil
oxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
160 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
44 


<<<PAGE 145>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
115 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
150 mg/kg 
  
4.1.2.11 
Fruit 
fillings 
for pastries 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
7,500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 146>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
650 mg/kg 
21 
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES 
PARA- 
 
800 mg/kg 
27 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
33 
SORBATES 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
955 
400 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 147>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
tosucrose) 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Steviol 
glycoside 
960 
330 mg/kg 
26 
4.1.2.12 
Cooked fruit 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
500 mg/kg 
188 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,200 mg/kg 
42 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
150 mg/kg 
 
4.2 
Vegetables, 
sea 
weeds, 
nuts and seeds 
 
 
 
 
4.2.1 
Fresh 
vegetables, sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and seeds 
 
No additives permitted 
 


<<<PAGE 148>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
4.2.1.1 
Untreated 
fresh 
vegetables 
((including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, 
fresh 
pulses 
and 
legumes 
(including 
soybean), and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and seeds)) 
No additives permitted 
 
4.2.1.2 
Surface 
treated 
fresh 
vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, 
fresh 
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and seeds 
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
79 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
79 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
79 
Glycerol ester 
of wood rosin 
445(iii) 
110 mg/kg 
  
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Microcrystallin
e wax  
905c(i) 
50 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,760 mg/kg 
33 
Shellac, 
bleached  
904 
GMP 
79 
4.2.1.3 
52[Peeled, cut 
or 
shredded 
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 149>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
minimally 
processed 
vegetables 
[(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, 
fresh 
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and seeds)]] 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
5,600 mg/kg 
33,76 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
  
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44,76,13
6 
Calcium 
chloride  
 509 
350 mg/kg 
  
Calcium lactate 327 
Calcium 
gluconate 
578 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
52[Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
 
Ascorbic acid 
300 
GMP 
 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
GMP 
 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501 
GMP] 
 
4.2.2 
Processed 
vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, pulses 
and legumes, 
and aloe vera) 
sea 
weeds, 
nuts and seeds 
Acetic 
acid, 
glacial 
260 
GMP 
  
Caramel IV - 
Sulfite 
Ammonia 
Caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
92  
Ascorbic acid, 
L-     
300 
GMP 
110 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
242, 262, 
264, 265 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
 
100 mg/kg  
21, 110 


<<<PAGE 150>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
Lactic acid, L-, 
D- and DL- 
270 
GMP 
262, 264 
Malic acid, dl- 
296 
GMP 
265 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
5,000 mg/kg  
33, 76  
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
15 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44, 
76, 
136, 137 
4.2.2.1 
Frozen 
vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers,   
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and seeds 
Ascorbic acid, 
L-     
300 
GMP 
110 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
242, 262, 
264, 265 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
100 mg/kg  
21, 110 
Lactic acid, L-, 
D- and DL- 
270 
GMP 
262, 264 
Malic acid, dl- 
296 
GMP 
265 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
5,000 mg/kg  
33, 76  
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
15 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44, 
76, 
136, 137 
52[Calcium 
chloride 
509 
GMP 
323 


<<<PAGE 151>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Calcium 
sulphate 
516 
GMP 
323] 
4.2.2.2 
Dried 
vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers,   
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and seeds 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS  
 
80 mg/kg 
10 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
196, 15, 
76 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
196, 15, 
76 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
10 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerols 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
800 mg/kg 
21, 
64, 
297 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
5,000 mg/kg  
33, 76  
Propyl gallate 
310 
50 mg/kg 
15, 
76,196 
SULFITES  
 
500 mg/kg  
44, 105 
4.2.2.3 
Vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Acesulfame 
950 
200 mg/kg 
144, 188 


<<<PAGE 152>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, 
fresh 
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds 
in 
vinegar, 
oil, 
brine 
or 
soybean sauce 
potassium 
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulfate 
523 
520 mg/kg 
6, 
245,296 
Aspartame 
951 
300 mg/kg  
144, 191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
200 mg/kg 
113 
BENZOATES  
2,000 mg/kg  
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
500 mg/kg 
  
beta 
- 
Carotenes, 
, 
vegetable 
160a(ii)  1,320 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS  
 
50 mg/kg  
 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerols 
472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
179, 181 
HYDROXYB
1,000 mg/kg 
27 


<<<PAGE 153>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
Indigotine 
(indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame  
961 
10 mg/kg 
144 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS  
 
500 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
160 mg/kg 
144 
SORBATES 
1000 mg/kg  
42 
Sucralose 
(trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
  
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
44 
52[Ferrous 
gluconate 
579 
150 mg/kg 
48,23 
Ferrous lactate 
585 
150 mg/kg 
48,23] 
4.2.2.4 
Canned 
or 
bottled 
(pasteurised) 
or 
retort 
pouched 
vegetables 
(including 
Acesulfame 
potassium  
950 
200 mg/kg 
188 
Allura red AC 
129 
200 mg/kg 
Acesulfame 
potassium  
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Aspartame  
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Brilliant 
blue 133 
200 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 154>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, 
fresh 
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds 
FCF 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel  
150c 
200 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 200 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
365 mg/kg 
21 
Fast green FCF 143 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame  
961 
33 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S  
 
160 mg/kg 
144  
Ascorbic acid 
  
GMP 
  
Stannous 
chloride 
512 
25 mg/kg 
43 
Steviol 
glycosides  
960 
70 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
580 mg/kg 
 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44 
4.2.2.5 
Vegetables 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 


<<<PAGE 155>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers, pulses 
and legumes, 
and aloe vera) 
sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and 
seeds, purees 
and 
spreads 
(peanut 
butter) 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
188 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
50 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLINS,COPP
ER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
62 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
179, 181 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
27 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg  
33, 76  
Polydimethylsi
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 156>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
loxane 
SACCHARIN
S 
 
160 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
330 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
169 
SULFITES 
 
500 mg/kg 
44, 138 
4.2.2.6 
Vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers,   
pulses 
and 
legumes, and 
aloe vera) sea 
weeds, 
nuts 
and 
seeds-
pulps 
and 
preparations 
(e.g vegetable 
desserts 
and 
sauces, 
candied 
vegetables) 
other 
than 
food category 
4.2.2.5 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
92  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
350 mg/kg 
113  
BENZOATES  
3,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
92  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
beta 
- 
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
92 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
50 mg/kg 
92  
Chlorophylls 
And 
Chlorophylins
,Copper 
 
100 mg/kg 
62, 92 


<<<PAGE 157>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Complexes 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerols 
472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
80 mg/kg 
21 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
92, 181 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
27 
Indigotine 
(indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg  
92 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
50 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
92 
SACCHARIN
 
200 mg/kg 


<<<PAGE 158>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
S 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
165 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
SULFITES 
 
300 mg/kg 
44, 205 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
50 mg/kg 
92 
4.2.2.7 
Fermented 
vegetables(incl
uding 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers,  pulses 
and legumes, 
and aloe vera) 
and 
seaweed 
products, 
excluding 
fermented 
soybean 
products 
of 
food 
categories 
6.8.6, 
6.8.7, 
12.9.1, 12.9.2.1 
and 12.9.2.3 
Aspartame 
951 
2,500 mg/kg 
191 
Acesulfame 
Potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
188 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
92  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
50 mg/kg 
92  
Calcium 
5'-
ribonucleotides 634 
GMP 
279 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
279 
Calcium 
chloride 
509 
GMP 
279 
Calcium lactate 327 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Calcium 
carbonate 
170 
GMP 
  
Calcium 
bisulphite 
227 
500 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 159>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
62 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
Erythrosine 
127 
30 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
181 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES  
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 160>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Malic acid 
296 
GMP 
  
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
500 mg/kg 
44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
580 mg/kg 
 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
92 
Steviol 
glycoside 
960 
200 mg/kg 
26 
4.2.2.8 
Cooked 
or 
fried 
vegetables 
(including 
mushrooms 
and 
fungi, 
roots 
and 
tubers,  pulses 
and legumes, 
and aloe vera), 
and seaweeds 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Benzoates  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
L-Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
Chlorophylls 
and 
Chlorophyllin
s, 
copper 
complexes 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 161>>>
Table 4 
Fruits and vegetables 
Food 
category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/Kg 
 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33, 76 
SACCHARIN
S 
 
160 mg/kg 
144  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42,221 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
150 mg/kg 
141  
Steviol 
glycoside 
960 
40 mg/kg 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 162>>>
Table  5 
Confectionary 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
Numb
er 
Recommended 
Maximum level 
Note 
5.0 
Confectionery 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10, 
15,114 
  
Mineral 
oil, 
medium  
viscosity 
905e 
2,000 mg/kg 
3 
Polydimethylsi
loxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
 
5.1 
52[Cocoa 
products 
and 
chocolate 
products 
including 
imitations and 
chocolate 
substitutes] 
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
2,000 mg/kg 
3 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 130 
5.1.1 
Cocoa 
mixes 
(powders) and 
cocoa 
mass/cake 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Ammonium 
salts 
of 
phosphatidic 
acid 
442 
GMP 
 97 
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES   
15,00 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg  
  
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
1,100 mg/kg 
33 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg 
97 
SACCHARIN
 
100 mg/kg 
97  


<<<PAGE 163>>>
S 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acids 
473 
10 g/kg 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
580 mg/kg 
97 
L-Tartaric acid 334 
5 g/kg 
 
52[Polyglycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS141, 
97 
Polyglycerol 
esters 
of 
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
476 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS141, 
97 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
XS141, 
97, 123] 
5.1.2 
Cocoa 
mixes 
(syrups) 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
97,188 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
97  
POLYSORB
ATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
80 mg/kg 
97  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Sucralose 
955 
400 mg/kg 
97  


<<<PAGE 164>>>
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
52[TARTRAT
ES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
45 
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
500 mg/kg 
15] 
5.1.3 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Cocoa 
and 
chocolate 
products 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
188 
Annatto  
160b(i
),(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 200 mg/kg 
  
52[omitted 
 
] 
  
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
183 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Ammonium 
salts 
of 
phosphatidic 
acid 
442 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
191 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
3 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
183 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
130, 
141, 15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
130, 
141, 15 
TBHQ 
 319 
200 mg/kg 
52[15,130 
,141] 
CAROTENO
IDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
183 


<<<PAGE 165>>>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
52[700 mg/kg] 
62 
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg 
  
Candelilla wax 902 
GMP 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
100 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
  
beta-
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
100 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
50 mg/kg 
21 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Mono and di 
glycerides 
of 
edible 
fatty 
acids 
471 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 166>>>
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES,  
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,500 mg/kg 
33 
Tartrazine 
 102 
100 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORB
ATES 
 
52[5,000 mg/kg] 
101 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
183 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARIN
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
  
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
3 
52[omit 
  
] 
  
Carmoisine 
 122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast 
green 
FCF 
 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
800 mg/kg 
 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
52[omit 
 
 
] 
BENZOATES  
1,500 mg/kg 
 
52[Polyglycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
2,000 mg/kg 
By 
weight 
in 
chocolat
es 


<<<PAGE 167>>>
 
Polyglycerol 
esters 
of 
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
476 
5,000 mg/kg 
101] 
 
52[SORBITA
N 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
101] 
 
 
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 
 
 
L - Tartaric 
acid 
334 
3 g/kg 
 
 
52[Castor Oil 
1503 
350 mg/kg 
 
 
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
750  mg/kg 
15,168] 
5.1.4 
52[Imitation 
Chocolate,  
Chocolate  
substitute  
products] 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
500 mg/kg 
188 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Ammonium 
salts 
of 
phosphatidic 
acid 
442 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
500 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
1,500 mg/kg 
13 
52[omit 
 
 
] 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
141, 15, 
197 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
3 
Candelilla wax 902 
GMP 
3 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
3 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 168>>>
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33  
POLYSORB
ATES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
  
Sucralose  
955 
800 mg/kg 
  
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
750 mg/kg 
 
Tartaric acid 
334 
5 g/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
700 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENO
IDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
beta 
–
Carotenes,  
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
100 mg/kg 
 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
100 mg/kg 
 
Sulfur dioxide 
220 
150 mg/kg 
 
Sorbitan 
monostearate 
491 
10 g/kg 
 
Annatto 
160b(i
), (ii) 
100 mg/kg 
 
52[Polyglycerol 
esters 
of 
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
476 
 5,000 mg/kg 
366] 
Caramel III 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel IV 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 169>>>
Saffron  
 
GMP 
 
52[Polydimethy
l-siloxane 
900a 
10mg/kg 
 
Polyglycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
2,000mg/kg 
366 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
6,000mg/kg 
348 
Sucrose 
Oligoesters, 
Type-I 
and 
Type -II 
473a 
6,000mg/kg 
348 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acid 
473 
6,000mg/kg 
348 
TARTRATES  
5,000mg/kg 
45 
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
500 mg/kg 
15 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
] 
5.2 
Confectionery 
including hard 
and soft candy, 
nougats 
etc. 
other than food 
categories 5.1, 
5.3, and 5.4 
Allura red AC 
129 
200 mg/kg 
 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
130, 15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
130, 15 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
477 
5,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 170>>>
fatty acids  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 130 
BENZOATES  
1,500 mg/kg 
13 
Diacetyltartari
c and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
GMP 
  
CAROTENO
IDS 
 
GMP 
 
beta 
– 
Carotenes,vege
table 
160a(i
i) 
500 mg/kg 
 
Canthaxanthin 
 161g 
GMP 
 
Castor oil 
1503 
500 mg/kg 
 
Candelilla wax 902 
GMP 
 3 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
  
GMP 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
  
Fast 
green 
FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin  
 100 
GMP 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
330 mg/kg 
 1, 
61, 
158 


<<<PAGE 171>>>
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES , 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
 27 
L-Tartaric acid  334 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
Tocopherol 
307a,b
,c 
500 mg/kg 
  
70[Liquid 
paraffin 
 905e 
GMP] 
  
Calcium, 
magnesium, 
sodium salts of 
stearic acid  
 470(i) GMP 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ammonium 
salts 
of 
phosphatidic 
acids 
442 
GMP 
  
Ponceau 4R  
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
Microcrystalli
ne wax 
905c(i
) 
GMP 
 3 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
 3 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
  
300 mg/kg  
  
Carmoisine 
 122 
100 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
 33 
SACCHARIN
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 163 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
1,800 mg/kg 
  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
700 mg/kg 
26, 199 
Sulfur dioxide 
220 
2,000 mg/kg 
 
Amendment of highlighted provision 
82[Omission of highlighted provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 
 


<<<PAGE 172>>>
52[omit 
  
] 
  
Tertiary 
butylhydroqui
none (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
 15, 130 
SORBATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
42 
POLYSORB
ATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Annatto 
 160b(
i), (ii) 
200 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
 133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
 110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg.kg 
  
Indogotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
 132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
2,000 mg/kg 
3 
52[Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
3 
Sucrose 
Oligoesters, 
Type-I 
and 
Type -II 
473a 
5,000mg/kg 
348 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acid 
473 
5,000mg/kg 
348 
Polyglycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
2,000mg/kg 
367 
TARTRATES  
2,000mg/kg 
45 
Sodium 
di 
acetate  
262 
(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
STEROYL 
LACTILATE
S 
481(i), 
482(i) 
5,000 mg/kg 
] 


<<<PAGE 173>>>
5.2.1 
Hard candy 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
3,500 mg/kg 
 188 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
 13 
Aspartame 
951 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartari
c and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
700 mg/kg 
 
Microcrystalli
ne wax 
905c(i
) 
GMP 
 3 
Neotame 
961 
330 mg/kg 
 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose)  
955 
1,500 mg/kg 
 164 
Annatto 
160b(i
), (ii) 
GMP 
  
Mono and di 
glycerides 
of 
edible 
fatty 
acids 
471 
GMP 
  
Lecithins 
322 (i) GMP 
  
L-Tartaric acid  334 
GMP 
  
52[Polyglycerol 
esters 
of  
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
476 
3,000mg/kg 
 
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
500 mg/kg 
15 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS OF 
 
10,000 mg/kg] 
  


<<<PAGE 174>>>
FATTY 
ACIDS 
5.2.2 
Soft candy 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
3500 mg/kg 
 157, 
188  
Annatto 
160b(i
),(ii) 
GMP 
 
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
148 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
 3 
Sulfur dioxide 
220 
2,000 mg/kg 
 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 1,700 mg/kg 
181 
Shellac, 
bleached  
904 
GMP 
 3 
52[Polyglycer
ol 
esters 
of  
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
476 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
Propylene 
glycol 
1520 
4,500 mg/kg 
 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
Hydrogenated 
poly-1-decenes  
907 
2,000 mg/kg 
 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acid 
473 
5,000mg/kg 
348] 
5.2.3 
Nougats 
and 
marzipans 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1000 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(indigocarmine
) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
 
Fast 
green 
FCF 
143 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 175>>>
CAROTENO
IDS 
  
100 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartari
c and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
  
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
  
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
  
5.3 
Chewing gum  Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160b 
(i), (ii) 
GMP 
  
75[Omitted] 
 
 
  
Curcumin  
 100 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
BENZOATES  
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Calcium 
aluminium 
silicate 
556 
100 mg/kg  
Express
ed 
as 
Alumini
um 
Castor Oil 
1503 
2,100 mg/kg 
 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENO
IDS 
  
100 mg/kg 
 
IRON 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 176>>>
OXIDES 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
400 mg/kg 
130 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
400 mg/kg 
130 
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 500 mg/kg 
181 
Ammonium 
salts 
of 
phosphatidic 
acids 
442 
GMP 
  
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acids 
473 
GMP 
  
Polyglycerol 
polyricinoleate 
 476 
GMP 
  
L-Tartaric acid  334 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
Candelilla wax 902 
GMP 
  
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
  
beta 
– 
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
500 mg/kg 
 
Cyclodextrin, 
beta- 
459 
20,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 177>>>
Diacetyltartari
c and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
25 mg/kg 
  
Fast 
green 
FCF 
143 
200 mg/kg 
  
Guaiac resin 
314 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
225 mg/kg 
  
Microcrystalli
ne wax 
905c(i
) 
69[20,000 mg/kg 
 3] 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
GMP 
  
Neotame 
961 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
44,000 mg/kg 
33  
POLYSORB
ATES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Polyethylene 
glycol 
1521 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Polyvinylpyrro
lidone 
1201 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 178>>>
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
aluminosilicate 
554 
100 mg/kg 
  
Aluminium 
silicate 
559 
100 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
2,500 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
42 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
GMP 
  
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
  
Stearoyl citrate 484 
15,000 mg/kg 
  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
3,500 mg/kg 
 26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Tertiary 
butylhydroqui
none (TBHQ) 
319 
400 mg/kg 
130 
 
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
20,000 mg/kg 
3 
5.4 
Decorations 
(e.g. for fine 
bakery wares), 
toppings (non-
fruit) 
and 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
500 mg/kg 
  
75[Omitted] 
 
 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
BENZOATES  
1,500 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 179>>>
sweet sauces 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
130, 15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
130, 15 
 
  
CAROTENO
IDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Candelilla wax 902 
GMP 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
  
beta-
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartari
c and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
  
Fast 
green 143 
100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 180>>>
FCF 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES-   
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORB
ATES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tertiary 
butylhydroqui
none (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
  
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
2000 mg/kg 
3 
52[Allura Red 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 181>>>
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 500 mg/kg 
181 
Mineral 
oil, 
medium 
viscosity 
905e 
2,000 mg/kg 
XS 
86, 
XS 105, 
3, 
XS 
141, XS 
87 
Poly glycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
2,000 mg/kg 
368 
Polyglycerol 
esters 
of 
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
 
476 
5,000 mg/kg 
 
 
Propylene 
glycol alginate 
 
405 
5,000 mg/kg 
 
 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
STEAROYL 
LACTYLAT
ES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
348 
Sucrose 
oligoesters, 
Type 
I 
and 
Type II 
473a 
5,000 mg/kg 
348 
Sucrose esters 
of fatty acids 
473 
5,000 mg/kg 
348 
TARTRATES  
8,000 mg/kg 
45 


<<<PAGE 182>>>
 
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
6.0 
Cereals 
and 
cereal products  
derived 
from 
cereal 
grains, 
from roots and 
tubers, pulses, 
legumes (fresh 
pulses 
and 
legumes 
are 
covered 
in 
category 
4.2) 
and 
pith 
or 
soft 
core 
of 
palm 
tree, 
excluding 
bakery 
wares 
of 
food 
category 
7.0: 
including 
unprocessed 
(6.1) 
and 
various 
processed 
forms 
of 
cereals 
and 
cereal 
based 
products 
  
  
  
  
TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
500 mg/kg 
15] 


<<<PAGE 183>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
6.1 
Whole, 
broken, 
or 
flaked 
grain, 
including rice  
  
No additives permitted 
  
6.2 
Flours 
and 
starches 
(including 
soybean 
powder) 
  
  
 
  
6.2.1 
and 
6.2.2 
Flours 
and 
starches*  
Protease  
1101(i
) 
GMP  
  
Pullulan 
1204 
GMP  
25 
SULFITES  
 
200 mg/kg  
44 
Benzoyl 
peroxide 
928 
75 mg/kg  
  
Chlorine 
925 
2,500 mg/kg  
87 
L-Ascorbic 
acid  
300 
300 mg/kg  
  
Azodicarbona
mide 
927a 
45 mg/kg  
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,500 mg/kg  
225, 33 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
300 mg/kg  
  
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,600 mg/kg  
6, 252 
alpha-Amylase 
from 
Aspergillus 
1100 
(i) 
100 mg/kg 
On flour 
mass 
basis 


<<<PAGE 184>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
oryzae var. 
alpha-Amylase 
from 
Bacillus 
subtilis 
1100 
(iii)  
GMP 
  
Carbohydrase 
from 
Bacillus 
licheniformis 
1100 
(vi) 
GMP 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e  
3,000 mg/kg  
186 
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
28, 25 
Amylases and 
other enzymes 
1100 
GMP 
  
Ammonium 
persulfate 
923 
2,500 mg/kg 
 On flour 
mass 
basis 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
5,000 mg/kg  
 On flour 
mass 
basis 
69[****] 
 
 
 
Ammonium 
chloride 
510 
500 mg/kg 
 On flour 
mass 
basis 
L-cysteine 
mono 
hydrochloride 
920 
90 mg/kg  
 On flour 
mass 
basis 
Soduim 
bisulphite 
222 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 185>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
Sodium 
metabisulfite 
223 
GMP 
 
Trisodium 
citrate 
331(iii
) 
GMP 
  
Maida 
Only following additives permitted in maida 
(if the flour is used for baking purpose) 
 
Benzoyl 
peroxide 
928 
40 mg/kg 
  
Ascorbic acid 
300 
200 mg/kg 
Corn flour 
Only following additives permitted in corn 
flour (Maize starch) 
 
SULFITES  
 
100 mg/kg 
44 
 
 
*No additives permitted in Atta 
 
6.3 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Ready -to -eat 
cereals, 
breakfast 
cereals, 
including 
rolled oats 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
10 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,200 mg/kg 
188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg  
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
 
Paprika 
oleoresin 
160c(i
) 
GMP 
 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg  
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
196, 15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
100 mg/kg 
196, 15 


<<<PAGE 186>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c  
50,000 mg/kg 
189 
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d  
2,500 mg/kg  
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
400 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 200 mg/kg 
  
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
160 mg/kg 
 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
196 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
350 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
52[TOCOPHE
 
200  mg/kg] 
 


<<<PAGE 187>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
ROLS 
6.4 
Pastas 
and 
noodles 
and 
like products  
 
 
 
 
6.4.1 
Fresh 
pastas 
and 
noodles 
and 
like 
products 
Agar  
406 
GMP 
211 
Alginic acid  
400 
GMP 
211 
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulphate  
523 
300 mg/kg 
247,6 
Ascorbic acid  
300 
200 mg/kg 
  
Calcium 
carbonate  
170(i) 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide  290 
GMP 
211,59 
Carob 
bean 
gum 
410 
GMP 
211 
Carrageenan 
407 
GMP 
211 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Curdlan 
424 
GMP 
211 
Distarch 
phosphate 
1412 
GMP 
211 
Fumaric acid 
297 
700 mg/kg 
  
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
211 
Glucono delta-
lactone 
575 
GMP 
  
Glycerol 
422 
GMP 
211 
Guargum 
412 
GMP 
211 
Gumarabic 
414 
GMP 
211 
Karaya gum 
416 
GMP 
211 
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
211 
Lactic acid L-, 
-D-and DL- 
270 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 188>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
  
Microcrystallin
e cellulose 
460(i) 
GMP 
211 
Mono- and di-
glycerides 
of 
fatty acids 
471 
GMP 
  
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
211 
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1413 
GMP 
211 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,500 mg/kg 
211,33 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
11,000 mg/kg 
  
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed 
407a 
GMP 
211 
Pullulan 
1204 
GMP 
211 
Sodium acetate 262(i) 
600 mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
alginate 
401 
GMP 
211 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
carbonate 
500 (i) 10,000 mg/kg 
  
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose 
466 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
DL-
malate 
350(ii) GMP 
  
Sodium 
500(ii) GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 189>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
hydrogen 
carbonate 
Sodium lactate 
325 
GMP 
  
Tragacanth 
gum 
413 
GMP 
211 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
211 
6.4.2 
Dried 
pastas 
and 
noodles 
and 
like 
products 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
211 
Caramel IV - 
Sulfite 
Ammonia 
caramel 
 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
211 
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
acid 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol  
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
900 mg/kg 
211,33 
Agar 
406 
GMP 
256 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
256 
Ammonium 
alginate 
403 
GMP 
256 
Ascorbic acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
256 
Calcium 
5'-
ribonucleotide 
634 
GMP 
256 
Calcium 
alginate 
404 
GMP 
256 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
200 mg/kg 
256 
Calcium 
170(i) 
GMP 
256 


<<<PAGE 190>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
carbonate 
Calcium sulfate 516 
GMP 
256 
Carob 
bean 
gum 
410 
GMP 
256 
beta 
– 
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a 
(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
211 
Carrageenan 
407 
GMP 
256 
Citric acid  
330 
GMP 
256 
Disodium 
5'-
guanylate 
627 
GMP 
256 
Disodium 
5'-
Inosinate 
631 
GMP 
256 
Disodium 
5'-
ribonucleotide 
635 
GMP 
256 
Distarch 
phosphate 
1412 
GMP 
256 
Fumaric acid 
297 
GMP 
256 
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
256 
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
256 
Gum arabic 
414 
GMP 
256 
Karaya gum 
416 
GMP 
256 
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
256 
Lactic acid L-, 
D-and DL- 
270 
GMP 
256 
Lecithins 
322 (i) GMP 
256 
Malic acid 
296 
GMP 
256 
Mannitol 
421 
GMP 
256 
Microcrystallin
e cellulose 
460 (i) GMP 
256 


<<<PAGE 191>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
Mono- and di-
glycerides 
of 
fatty acids 
471 
GMP 
256 
Monosodium 
L-glutamate  
621 
GMP 
256 
Nitrous oxide  
942 
GMP 
256 
Pectins  
440 
GMP 
256 
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1413 
GMP 
256 
POLYSORBA
TES  
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Potassium 
alginate  
402 
GMP 
256 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501 (i) GMP 
256 
Potassium 
chloride  
508 
GMP 
256 
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed 
407a 
GMP 
256 
Pullulan 
1204 
GMP 
256 
Salts 
of 
myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic 
acids 
with 
ammonia,calci
um,potassium 
and sodium  
470 (i) GMP 
256 
Sodium acetate  262 (i) GMP 
256 


<<<PAGE 192>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
Sodium 
alginate 
401 
GMP 
256 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
200 mg/kg 
256 
Sodium 
carbonate  
500 (i) GMP 
256 
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose 
466 
GMP 
256 
Sodium 
gluconate  
576 
GMP 
256 
Sodium 
hydrogen 
carbonate 
500 
(ii) 
GMP 
256 
Sodium lactate  325 
GMP 
256 
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
256 
Tragacanth 
gum 
413 
GMP 
256 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
256 
6.4.3 
Pre-cooked 
pastas 
and 
noodles 
and 
like products 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
211, 10 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
130, 15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
130, 15 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
1,200 mg/kg 
153 


<<<PAGE 193>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPY
LLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
100 mg/kg 
153 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
153 
Caramel III - 
Ammonia 
carmel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
153,173 
Caramel 
IV-
Sulfite 
ammonia 
carmel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
153 
beta 
– 
Carotenes 
, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
153 
Cyclodextrin, 
beta 
459 
1,000 mg/kg 
 153 
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
acid 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
194 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
2,500 mg/kg 
33,211 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Polydimethylsil
oxane 
900a 
50 mg/kg 
153 


<<<PAGE 194>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
  
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg 
153,2 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
153 
SORBATES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
42,211 
SULFITES 
 
20 mg/kg 
44 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
153 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
130,15 
Paprika 
oleoresin 
160c(i
) 
GMP 
 
Annatto 
160b(i
),(ii) 
GMP 
 
Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
 
6.5 
Cereals/pulses 
and 
starch 
based desserts  
 ASCORBYL 
ESTERS  
 
500 mg/kg 
 10, 2 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
  188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
200 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
150 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
 
75 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 195>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
and 
fatty acid esters 
of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
315 mg/kg 
 21 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 200 mg/kg 
181 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
 
Nisin 
234 
3 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
7,000 mg/kg 
33 


<<<PAGE 196>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
90 mg/kg 
2, 15 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 42 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
165 mg/kg 
 26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Tocopherol  
307 
GMP  
  
TBHQ  
319 
200 mg/kg  
  
52[Sodium 
carboxymethyl 
cellulose 
(Cellulose 
gum), Sodium 
carboxymethyl 
cellulose, 
enzymatically 
hydrolysed 
(Cellulose 
gum, 
466, 
469 
5 g/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 197>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
enzymatically 
hydrolyzed)] 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100  mg/kg 
  
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg  
  
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indogotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 
52[143
] 
100 mg/kg 
  
6.6 
Batters  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
Only for 
vada dry 
mixes 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 198>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
and 
fatty acid esters 
of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
5,600 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
2 
Polydimethylsil
oxane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
6 
SORBATES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
42 
Tartaric acid  
334 
52[GMP] 
  
6.7 
Pre-cooked or 
processed 
cereal/grain/le
gume products 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
200 mg/kg 
72 
6.8 
Soybean 
products 
(excluding 
  
  
  
  


<<<PAGE 199>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
soybean-based 
seasonings and 
condiments of 
food category 
12.9) 
6.8.1 
Soybean based 
beverages 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
1,300 mg/kg 
33 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
200 mg/kg 
  26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
  
6.8.2 
Soybean-based 
beverage film 
 
 
 
 
6.8.3 
Soybean curd 
(tofu) 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
100 mg/kg  
33 
6.8.4 
Semi-
dehydrated 
soybean curd 
 
 
 
 
6.8.4.1 
Thick 
gravy-
stewed 
semi- 
dehydrated 
soybean curd 
 
 
 
 
6.8.4.2 
Deep 
fried 
semi- 
dehydrated 
 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 200>>>
Table  6 
Cereals and cereal products 
Food 
Categor
y 
System 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive  INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level  
Note  
soybean curd 
6.8.4.3 
Semi- 
dehydrated 
soybean curd, 
other 
than 
food categories 
6.8.4.1 
and 
6.8.4.2 
 
 
 
 
6.8.5 
Dehydrated 
soybean curd  
 
 
 
 
6.8.6 
Fermented 
soybeans  
 
 
 
 
6.8.7 
Fermented 
soybean curd 
 
 
 
 
6.8.8 
Other soybean 
protein 
products 
Caramel 
III  
Ammonia 
process 
150c 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV - 
Sulfite 
ammonia 
Process 
150d 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
 
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
7.0 
Bakery 
ASCORBYL 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
15,10 


<<<PAGE 201>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
products 
ESTERS 
Benzoic acid 
210 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
180, 15 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
180, 15 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
 3 
Fast green FCF 143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Mineral 
oil, 
high viscosity 
905d 
3,000 mg/kg 
 125 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
15,000 mg/kg 
72, 11 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 42 
7.1 
Bread 
and 
ordinary 
bakery wares 
and mixes 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
 188 
Aspartame 
951 
4,000 mg/kg 
191 
Ammonium 
persulfate 
923 
2,500 mg/kg 
 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
6,000 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
70 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 202>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
650 mg/kg 
 
Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
  
Sucrose esters 
of  
fatty acid 
473 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
stearoyl-2-
lactylate 
481(i),  5,000 mg/kg 
Singly or 
in 
combinati
on 
Calcium 
stearoyl-2- 
lactyalate 
482(ii) 
5,000 mg/kg 
Polyglycerol 
esters 
of 
interesterified 
ricinoleic acid 
476 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
Acid 
calcium 
phosphate 
341 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
diacetate 
262 (ii) 4,000 mg/kg  
  
Acid 
sodium  
pyrophosphate 
450 (i) 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
L- 
Cysteine 
monohydrochlo
ride 
920 
90 mg/kg 
 
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
 
Benzoyl 
peroxide 
928 
80 mg/kg 
 
Acid 
calcium  341 
10,000 mg/kg  
  


<<<PAGE 203>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
phosphate 
7.1.1 
Bread 
and 
rolls including 
yeast leavened 
breads, 
specialty 
breads 
and 
soda breads 
Mineral 
oil, 
medium 
viscosity 
905e 
3,000 mg/kg 
 36, 126 
Xylanase 
 
GMP 
Only 
for 
breads, 
FS03 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
 195, 15 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
 
  
82[Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
4,000 mg/kg 
Except for 
use 
in 
soda 
breads;] 
7.1.2 
Crackers 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulfate 
523 
100 mg/kg 
 246, 6 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 204>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
200 mg/kg 
 181 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
 11 
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 246, 6 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
15, 195 
70[SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
11] 
 
 
82[Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
2,000 mg/kg] 
 
7.1.3 
Other 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 205>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
ordinary 
bakery 
products  
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulfate 
523 
100 mg/kg 
6, 
244, 
246 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 11 
Propyl gallate 
310 
100 mg/kg 
15, 130 
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
 6, 244, 
246 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
 15, 130 
70[SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
11] 
7.1.4 
Bread-type 
products, 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 116 


<<<PAGE 206>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
including 
bread stuffing 
and 
bread 
crumbs  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
6 mg/kg 
 62 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
200 mg/kg 
 181 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
52[229,33] 
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 11 
52[Poly glycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
10,000 mg/kg] 
 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquin
one (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
 15, 195 
70[SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
11] 
7.1.5 
Steamed 
breads 
and 
buns  
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulfate 
523 
40 mg/kg 
 246, 6, 
248 


<<<PAGE 207>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 216 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
11 
Propylene 
glycol esters of 
fatty acids 
477 
15,000 mg/kg 
11, 72 
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
40 mg/kg 
246, 6, 
248 
70[SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
11] 
82[Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
500 mg/kg] 
 
7.1.6 
  
  
  
  
Mixes 
for 
bread 
and 
ordinary 
bakery wares  
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulfate 
523 
40 mg/kg 
 246, 
6, 249 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 208>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
caramel 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 11 
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATE
S 
 
40 mg/kg 
248, 246, 
6 
 
70[SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
11] 
 
 
82[Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
20,000 mg/kg 
11] 
7.2 
Fine 
bakery 
wares (sweet, 
salty, savoury) 
and mixes 
52[STEAROY
L 
LACTYLATE
S 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS 
OF 
FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
Nisin 
234 
6.25 mg/kg 
233 
POLYOXYET  
3,000 mg/kg 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 209>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
HYLENE 
STEARATES 
Propylene 
glycol 
1520 
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Sucrose 
oligoesters, 
Type 
I 
and 
Type II  
473a 
10,000 mg/kg 
348 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
50 mg/kg] 
 
7.2.1 
Cakes, 
cookies, 
biscuit, 
cracker 
and 
pies  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
 165,188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aspartame 
951 
1,700 mg/kg 
191,165 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
1,000 mg/kg 
77, 113  
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
 3 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 210>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
 3 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,200 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
 27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
80 mg/kg 
165 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
52[omit 
 
] 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
170 mg/kg 
 165 


<<<PAGE 211>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
 44 
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
 3 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
tosucrose) 
955 
700 mg/kg 
 165 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
52[Omit 
 
] 
  
Sucrose esters 
of Fatty acids  
473 
GMP  
  
Tartaric acid  
334 
GMP  
  
Benzoyl 
peroxide  
928 
40 mg/kg 
  
Curcurmin 
100(i) 
GMP  
  
Canthaxanthin  161g 
GMP  
  
Annatto   
160(b) 
GMP  
  
Carmoisine  
122 
100 mg/kg 
  
Erythrosine  
127 
50 mg/kg  
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
Tartarazine  
102 
100 mg/kg  
  
69[****] 
 
 
 
52[Poly glycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
TOCOPHERO
LS 
 
200  mg/kg 
389 
TARTRATES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
45 
Propylene 
405 
3,000 mg/kg] 
 


<<<PAGE 212>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
glycol alginates  
7.2.2 
Other 
fine 
bakery 
products  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
165,188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aspartame 
951 
1,700 mg/kg 
191,165 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
1,000 mg/kg 
77,113 
BENZOATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
3 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
3 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,200 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
52[omit 
 
] 
 


<<<PAGE 213>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
 
Neotame 
961 
80 mg/kg 
165 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,  33 
52[Omit 
 
] 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
170 mg/kg 
165 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44 
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
3 
Sucralose  
955 
700 mg/kg 
165 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
52[Poly glycerol 
esters of fatty 
475 
10,000 mg/kg] 
  


<<<PAGE 214>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
acid 
 
 
82[Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
2000 mg/kg] 
 
7.2.3 
Mixes for fine 
bakery wares  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
165,188 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aspartame 
951 
1,700 mg/kg 
191,165 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
1,000 mg/kg 
77,113 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
3 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
3 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
150d 
1,200 mg/kg 
  
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 215>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
ammonia 
caramel 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
20,000 mg/kg 
 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
 
Neotame 
961 
80 mg/kg 
165, 
PHOSPHATE
S  
 
9,300 mg/kg 
229,33 
52[omit 
 
] 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
196,15 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARIN
S 
 
170 mg/kg 
165 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44 
Shellac, 
bleached 
904 
GMP 
3 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalac
955 
700 mg/kg 
165 


<<<PAGE 216>>>
Table 7 
Bakery products 
Food 
Categ
ory 
Syste
m 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive INS 
No 
Recommended 
maximum level 
Note 
tosucrose) 
Sucroglyceride
s 
474 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
 
52[Poly glycerol 
esters of fatty 
acid 
475 
15,000 mg/kg 
11] 
 
 
82[Propylene 
glycol alginate 
405 
10,000 mg/kg 
11] 
 
 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 217>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
8.0 
Fresh / frozen 
/ 
chilled 
/ 
ground meat, 
poultry 
(frozen 
mutton, 
chicken, goat 
and 
buffalomeat) 
 
 
 
  
8.1 
Fresh / frozen 
/ 
chilled 
/ 
ground  meat 
and poultry 
 
No additives permitted 
  
8.1.1 
Fresh / frozen 
/ chilled meat, 
poultry, 
whole pieces 
or cuts 
 
No additives permitted 
  
8.1.2 
Fresh / frozen 
/ chilled meat, 
poultry, 
comminuted 
 
No additives permitted 
 
8.2 
Processed 
meat 
and 
poultry  
products 
in 
whole pieces 
or cuts 
Paprika oleoresin 160c(i
) 
GMP 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96, 
130, 15 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquinon
e (TBHQ) 
319 
100 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96,15, 
167,130 


<<<PAGE 218>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
Brilliant 
Blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96, 4, 
XS98, 
XS89 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
15, 130, 
XS96, 
XS97 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
100mg/kg 
15, 130, 
167, 
XS96, 
XS97 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel  
150c 
GMP 
XS97, 
XS96,X
S98, 
XS89, 4, 
3 
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite ammonia 
caramel  
150d 
GMP 
XS97, 
XS96,X
S98, 
XS89, 4, 
3 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable  
160a(ii
) 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96, 
Erythrosine  
127 
30 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96, 4 
Fast green FCF  
143 
100 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96, 3, 
4 
RIBOFLAVINS   
300 mg/kg 
XS96 
XS97 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
XS 
97, 
XS 96 


<<<PAGE 219>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
8.2.1 
Non-heat 
treated 
processed 
meat 
and 
poultry  
products 
in 
whole pieces 
or cuts 
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Grape 
skin 
extract  
163(ii)  5,000 mg/kg 
XS96, 
XS97 
8.2.1.1 
Cured 
(including 
salted) 
non-
heat 
treated 
processed 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
in 
whole pieces 
or cuts 
 
 
 
  
8.2.1.2 
Cured 
(including 
salted) 
and 
dried 
processed 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
in 
whole pieces 
or cuts 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
3, 13 
Isopropyl citrates 384 
200 mg/kg 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
6 mg/kg 
  
8.2.1.3 
Fermented 
non-heated 
treated 
processed 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
in 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
 
NITRITES  
 
80 mg/kg 
32,288 


<<<PAGE 220>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
whole pieces 
or cuts 
8.2.2 
Heat-treated 
processed 
meat 
and 
poultryprodu
cts in whole 
pieces or cuts 
(canned 
chicken, 
canned 
mutton 
and 
goat meat) 
Added colour, flavour and meat tenderizer 
not permitted. 
 
Nisin 
234 
25 mg/kg 
330, 
XS97, 
XS96, 
233 
NITRITES 
 
80 mg/kg 
32, 288 
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
SACCHARINS 
 
500 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96, 15 
52[TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
500  mg/kg 
XS 
96, 
XS 97] 
8.2.3 
77[Frozen raw, 
flavoured/mari
nated, 
processed 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
in 
whole pieces 
or cuts] 
52[Mineral 
oil, 
High Viscosity  
905d 
950 mg/kg 
3 
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33] 
52[8.3 
Processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg  
XS96, 
XS89, 
XS98, 
XS97, 4, 
16 
Butylatedhydrox
yanisole (BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98, 
130, 15 
Butylatedhydrox
ytoluene (BHT) 
321 
100mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98, 


<<<PAGE 221>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
15, 130, 
162 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
GMP 
XS89, 
XS98 
XS96, 
XS97, 3, 
4 ,16 
Caramel 
IV 
- 
sulfite ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
GMP 
XS89, 
XS98,  
XS96,  
XS97, 3, 
4,16 
Erythrosine 
127 
30 mg/kg 
4, 290 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 5,000 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98,16 
NITRITES  
 
80 mg/kg 
286, 32 
Paprika oleoresin 160c(i
) 
GMP 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33, 302  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98 
RIBOFLAVINS    
1,000 mg/kg 
XS96, 
XS97, 16 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98, 
15, 130  
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
405 
3,000 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98 
SORBATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98, 42 
Sodium diacetate 262(ii) 1,000 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98  
TOCOPHEROL
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
XS 
89, 
XS 98 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquinon
e (TBHQ) 
319 
100 mg/kg 
XS 
89, 
XS 
98, 
15, 130, 


<<<PAGE 222>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
162] 
8.3.1 
Non-heat 
treated 
processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
20 mg/kg 
118 
8.3.1.1 
Cured 
(including 
salted) 
non-
heat 
treated 
processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
100 mg/kg 
118,4 
 
 
 
 
8.3.1.2 
Cured 
(including 
salted) 
and 
dried 
processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
Isopropyl citrate 
384 
200 mg/kg 
  
Natamycin 
(Pimaricin) 
235 
20 mg/kg 
3, 81 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
3,13 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 223>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
8.3.1.3 
Fermented 
non-heat 
treated 
processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultryprodu
cts 
Sulphur dioxide 
220 
450 mg/kg  
Sausages 
& 
sausage 
meat 
containin
g cereals 
and 
condime
nts 
8.3.2 
Heat-treated 
processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
(canned 
cooked ham, 
canned 
luncheon 
meat, canned 
chopped 
meat) 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
 
XS98, 
XS89, 
XS97, 
XS96, 4 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
20 mg/kg 
XS98, 
XS 89 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
 
52[160
a(ii)] 
20 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
35 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98, 21 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
XS89, , 
XS98, 15 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
XS89, 
XS98, 
52[TOCOPHER
OLS 
 
500  mg/kg 
XS 89 , 
XS 98] 


<<<PAGE 224>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
8.3.3 
Frozen 
processed 
comminuted 
meat 
and 
poultry 
products 
Mineral oil, high 
viscosity  
905d 
950 mg/kg 
3 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
100 
mg/kg in 
other 
than 
cooked. 
XS89, 
XS98 
XS97, 
XS96, 4 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg   
100 
mg/kg in 
other 
than 
cooked. 
XS89, 
XS98 
8.4 
Edible 
casings  
Paprika oleoresin 160c(i
) 
GMP 
  
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS  
 
 5,000 mg/kg 
10 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
 100 mg/kg 
XS98, 
XS89, 
XS97, 
XS96, 4 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
XS98, 
XS 89 
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
3 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163 
(ii) 
5,000 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 225>>>
Table  8 
Meat and meat products including poultry 
Food 
Category 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum 
Level 
Note 
HYDROXYBE
NZOATES, 
PARA- 
  
36 mg/kg 
27 
IRON OXIDES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
72 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,100 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBAT
ES  
 
1,500 mg/kg 
XS97, 
XS96 
 
 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 226>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
9.0 
Fish and fish 
products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
 
 
 
 
9.1 
Fresh fish and 
fish products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
  
 
No additives permitted 
 
9.1.1 
Fresh fish 
No additives permitted 
 
9.1.2 
Fresh 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
SULFITES 
 
100mg/kg 
44 
9.2 
Processed fish 
and 
fish 
products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
200 mg/kg 
144 , 188 
Aspartame 
951 
300 mg/kg 
144 , 191 
CAROTENO
IDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
95 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
30,000 mg/kg   
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
150d 
30,000 mg/kg 95 


<<<PAGE 227>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
caramel 
9.2.1 
Frozen 
fish, 
fish fillets, and 
fish products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms(f
rozen shrimps 
or  prawns, 
frozen 
lobsters,frozen 
squid , frozen 
fin fish and 
frozen 
fish 
fillets) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
10 
Ascorbic acid 
300 
GMP 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
15, 180 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
15, 180 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
95 
Canthaxanthin 161g 
35 mg/kg 
95 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
61 , 257 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
75 mg/kg 
21 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
95 
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
 44 ,139 
Sodium 
331(i) 
GMP 
61 


<<<PAGE 228>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
61 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP  
29 
Agar 
406 
GMP  
 3, 53, 29 
Alginic acid  
400 
GMP  
29 
Ammonium 
alginate  
403 
GMP  
29 
Calcium 
alginate  
404 
GMP  
29 
Carob 
bean 
gum 
410 
GMP  
37 
Carrageenan  
407 
GMP  
37 
Citric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
 472c 
GMP 
29 
Dextrins, 
roasted starch  
1400 
GMP 
 3, 53,  29 
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
29 
Guar gum  
412 
GMP 
37, 73 
Gum 
arabic 
(acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
29 
Hydroxypropy
l cellulose 
463 
GMP 
29 
Hydroxypropy
l 
methyl 
cellulose 
464 
GMP 
29 


<<<PAGE 229>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Hydroxypropy
l starch  
1440 
GMP 
29 
Acetic 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycero 
 472a 
GMP 
29 
Karaya gum  
416 
GMP 
29 
Lactic 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
29 
Lecithins  
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
29 
Magnesium 
chloride  
511 
GMP 
29 
Mannitol  
421 
GMP 
29 
Methyl 
cellulose  
461 
GMP 
37 
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose  
465 
GMP 
29 
Oxidized 
starch  
1404 
GMP 
29 
Pectins  
440 
GMP 
 16,37 
Polydextroses  1200 
GMP 
29 
Potassium 
alginate 
402 
GMP 
29 
Potassium 
chloride  
508 
GMP 
29 
Potassium 
dihydrogen 
citrate  
332(i)  
GMP 
61 


<<<PAGE 230>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Powdered 
cellulose  
460(ii)  
GMP 
29 
Processed 
eucheumasea
weed  
 407a 
GMP 
37 
Salts 
of 
myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic 
acids 
with ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium and 
sodium 
 470(i) 
GMP 
71, 29 
Trisodium 
citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
61 
Salts of oleic 
acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium and 
sodium 
470(ii) 
GMP 
29 
Sodium 
alginate 
401 
GMP 
37 
Carboxymethy
l cellulose  
466 
GMP 
  
Tara gum  
417 
GMP 
29, 73 
Tragacanth 
gum  
413 
GMP 
29 
Tricalcium 
citrate  
333(iii) 
GMP 
29 
Trisodium 
citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
61 


<<<PAGE 231>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Xanthan gum  
415 
GMP 
37 
9.2.2 
Frozen 
battered fish, 
fish fillets and 
fish products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
Trisodium 
citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
61 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
10 
Ammonium 
carbonate 
503(i) 
GMP 
41 
Ascorbic acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
15, 180 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
15, 180 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
61 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
75 mg/kg 
21 
Fumaric acid 
297 
GMP 
41 
Malic 
acid, 
DL- 
296 
GMP 
41 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
GMP 
41 
Potassium 
dihydrogen 
332(i) 
GMP 
61 


<<<PAGE 232>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
citrate 
Potassium 
hydrogen 
carbonate 
501(ii) 
GMP 
41 
Sodium 
carbonate 
500(i) 
GMP 
41 
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
61 
Sodium 
fumarates 
365 
GMP 
41 
Sodium 
hydrogen 
carbonate 
500(ii) 
GMP 
41 
Sodium 
sesquicarbonat
e 
500(iii) 
GMP 
41 
 
THIODIPRO
PIONATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
 15, 46 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP  
63 
Agar 
406 
GMP  
29 
Carob 
bean 
gum 
410 
GMP  
177 
Carrageenan  
407 
GMP  
177 
Citric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
 472c 
GMP 
129 


<<<PAGE 233>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Dextrins, 
roasted starch  
1400 
GMP 
29 
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
29 
Guar gum  
412 
GMP 
177 
Gum 
arabic 
(acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
29 
Hydroxypropy
l cellulose 
463 
GMP 
63 
Hydroxypropy
l 
methyl 
cellulose 
464 
GMP 
63 
Hydroxypropy
l starch  
1440 
GMP 
63 
Acetic 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycero 
 472a 
GMP 
29 
Karaya gum  
416 
GMP 
29 
Lactic 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
29 
Magnesium 
chloride  
511 
GMP 
29 
Mannitol  
421 
GMP 
29 
Methyl 
cellulose  
461 
GMP 
177 
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose  
465 
GMP 
63 
Oxidized 
starch  
1404 
GMP 
63 


<<<PAGE 234>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Pectins  
440 
GMP 
177 
Powdered 
cellulose  
460(ii)  
GMP 
29 
Processed 
eucheumasea
weed  
 407a 
GMP 
177 
Salts 
of 
myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic 
acids 
with ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium and 
sodium 
 470(i) 
GMP 
71 
Salts of oleic 
acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium and 
sodium 
470(ii) 
GMP 
29 
Sodium 
alginate 
401 
GMP 
210 
Carboxymethy
l cellulose  
466 
GMP 
177 
Tara gum  
417 
GMP 
29, 73 
Tragacanth 
gum  
413 
GMP 
29 
Xanthan gum  
415 
GMP 
177 
Acetylated 
distarch 
adipate  
1422 
GMP 
63 
Acid-treated 
1401 
GMP 
63 


<<<PAGE 235>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
starch 
Alkaline 
treated starch  
1402 
GMP 
63 
Hydroxypropy
l 
distarch 
phosphate 
1442 
GMP 
63 
Lecithins 
 322(i), 
(ii)  
GMP 
63 
Starch acetate 
1420 
GMP 
63 
Monostarch 
phosphate  
1410 
GMP 
63 
Tripotassium 
citrate  
332(ii) 
GMP 
61 
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1413 
GMP 
63 
9.2.3 
Frozen 
minced 
and 
creamed 
fish 
products 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
CHLOROPH
YLLS, AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLIN 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
40 mg/kg 
95 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
GMP 
95 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
95 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
95 
Agar 
406 
GMP  
  


<<<PAGE 236>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Carob 
bean 
gum 
410 
GMP  
  
Carrageenan  
407 
GMP  
  
Dextrins, 
roasted starch  
1400 
GMP 
  
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
  
Guar gum  
412 
GMP 
  
Karaya gum  
416 
GMP 
  
Mannitol  
421 
GMP 
  
Processed 
eucheumasea
weed  
 407a 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
alginate 
401 
GMP 
  
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
 
Trisodium 
citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
 
Tara gum  
417 
GMP 
  
Xanthan gum  
415 
GMP 
  
9.2.4 
Cooked 
and/or 
fried 
fish and fish 
products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
Ascorbic acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
  
Fumaric acid 
297 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
528 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
504(ii) 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 237>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
carbonate 
Malic 
acid, 
DL- 
296 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
fumarates 
365 
GMP 
  
Tricalcium 
citrate 
333(iii) 
GMP 
  
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) 
GMP 
 
Trisodium 
citrate 
331(iii) 
GMP 
 
9.2.4.1 
Cooked 
fish 
and 
fish 
products 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP  
241 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
95 
Carob 
bean 
gum 
410 
GMP 
241 
Brilliant blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
95 
Dextrins, 
roasted starch  
1400 
GMP 
241 
Hydroxypropy
l starch  
1440 
GMP 
241 
Gellan gum  
418 
GMP 
241 


<<<PAGE 238>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Karaya gum  
416 
GMP 
241 
CHLOROPH
YLLS, AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLIN 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
30 mg/kg 
62 ,95 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
 
Oxidized 
starch  
1404 
GMP 
241 
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
 407a 
GMP 
241 
beta-
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
95 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
50 mg/kg 
21 
Fast 
green 
FCF 
143 
200 mg/kg 
 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
95 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
95 
PHOSPHAT
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 


<<<PAGE 239>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
ES 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
95 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
95 
Tragacanth 
gum 
413 
GMP 
241 
SACCHARI
NS 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES  
 
2,000 mg/kg 
42 
Sodium 
fumarate 
365 
GMP 
  
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
95 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
241, 327 
9.2.4.2 
Cooked 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
 
 Allura red AC 129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aluminium 
ammonium 
sulfate 
523 
200 mg/kg 
 6,250 
BENZOATE
S 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
13, 82 
Brilliant blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
95 
beta-
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 240>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
42, 82 
SULFITES 
 
150 mg/kg 
44 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
  
9.2.4.3 
Fried fish and 
fish products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
Hydroxypropy
l starch  
1440 
GMP 
41 
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
 407a 
GMP 
41 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP 
41 
Carob 
bean 
gum  
410 
GMP 
41 
Dextrins, 
roasted starch  
1400 
GMP 
41 
Gellan gum  
418 
GMP 
41 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLIN  
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
40 mg/kg 
95,41 
Karaya gum  
416 
GMP 
41 
Oxidized 
starch  
1404 
GMP 
41 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
95 


<<<PAGE 241>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Tragacanth 
gum  
413 
GMP 
 41 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
 
9.2.5 
Smoked, 
dried, 
fermented, 
and/or salted 
fish and fish 
products, 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms 
(Dried 
shark 
fins, 
 Salted 
fish/ 
dried 
salted 
fish) 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 22 
BENZOATE
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
15, 196 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
15, 196 
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINCOPP
ER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
266, 267 
Canthaxanthin 161g 
15 mg/kg 
 
beta- 
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Fast 
green 
FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fumaric acid 
297 
GMP 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
266, 267 


<<<PAGE 242>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
250 mg/kg 
22 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
GMP 
22 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
 
100 mg/kg 
22  
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
528 
GMP 
266, 267 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
carbonate 
504(ii) 
GMP 
266, 267 
Malic 
acid, 
DL- 
296 
GMP 
266, 267 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
266, 267 
Potassium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
22 
Propyl gallate 
310 
100 mg/kg 
266, 267 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
15, 196 
SORBATES 
 
52[1000 
mg/Kg] 
42 
SULFITES 
 
30 mg/kg 
 
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
44 
Sodium 
fumarate 
365 
GMP 
266, 267 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
266, 267 


<<<PAGE 243>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP  
22 
Agar 
406 
GMP  
300 
Carrageenan  
407 
GMP  
300 
Citric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
 472c 
GMP 
300 
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
300 
Gum 
arabic 
(acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
300 
Hydroxypropy
l cellulose 
463 
GMP 
300 
Hydroxypropy
l 
methyl 
cellulose 
464 
GMP 
300 
Hydroxypropy
l starch  
1440 
GMP 
300 
Lactic 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
300 
Magnesium 
chloride  
511 
GMP 
300 
Mannitol  
421 
GMP 
300 
Methyl 
cellulose  
461 
GMP 
300 
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose  
465 
GMP 
300 
Oxidized 
1404 
GMP 
300 


<<<PAGE 244>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
starch  
Pectins  
440 
GMP 
300 
Powdered 
cellulose  
460(ii)  
GMP 
300 
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
 407a 
GMP 
300 
Salts 
of 
myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic 
acids 
with ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium and 
sodium 
 470(i) 
GMP 
300 
Salts of oleic 
acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium and 
sodium 
470(ii) 
GMP 
300 
Sodium 
alginate 
401 
GMP 
300 
Carboxymethy
l cellulose  
466 
GMP 
300 
Tara gum  
417 
GMP 
300 
Tragacanth 
gum  
413 
GMP 
300 
Xanthan gum  
415 
GMP 
300 
Lecithins 
 322(i), 
(ii)  
GMP 
300 
Acetic 
and  472a 
GMP 
300 


<<<PAGE 245>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
9. 3 
Semi 
preserved fish 
and 
fish 
products 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
200 mg/kg 
144, 188  
Aspartame 
951 
300 mg/kg 
144, 191  
Aspartame-
acesulfame 
salt 
962 
200 mg/kg 
113  
BENZOATE
S 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
13, 120  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
15, 180 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
15, 180 
CAROTENO
IDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
100, 95  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
30,000 mg/kg 95 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
120 mg/kg 
144 
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
30,000 mg/kg 95 
Neotame 
961 
10 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 246>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
HYDROXYB
ENZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
27 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
9.3.1 
Fish and fish 
products 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms, 
marinated 
and/or in jelly 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
SACCHARI
NS 
 
160 mg/kg 
144 
9.3.2 
Fish and fish 
products 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans 
and 
echinoderms, 
pickled and/or 
in brine 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
250 mg/kg 
21 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
SACCHARI
NS 
 
160 mg/kg 
144 
9.3.3 
Salmon 
substitutes, 
caviar 
and 
other fish roe 
products 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLINCOPP
ER 
COMPLEXE
 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 247>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
S 
Canthaxanthin 161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
beta-
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Fast 
green 
FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Ponceau 4R 
52[124] 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
9.3.4 
Semi-
preserved fish 
and 
fish 
products 
including 
molluscs, 
crustaceans 
and 
echinoderms 
(e.g. 
fish 
paste), 
excluding 
Sunset yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPH
YLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLIN 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
S 
 
75 mg/kg 
95 
IRON 
OXIDES 
 
50 mg/kg 
95 


<<<PAGE 248>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
products 
of 
food 
categories 
9.3.1 –9.3.3 
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARI
NS 
 
160 mg/kg 
144 
9.4 
Fully 
preserved  
including 
canned 
or 
fermented fish 
and 
fish 
products, and  
molluscs, 
crustaceans, 
and 
echinoderms(c
anned fin fish, 
canned 
shrimp, 
canned 
sardines, 
canned 
salmon, 
canned 
crab 
meat, canned 
tuna 
and 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
200 mg/kg 
144, 188 
Aspartame 
951 
300 mg/kg 
144, 191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame 
salt 
962 
200 mg/kg 
113 
CAROTENO
IDS  
 
100 mg/kg 
95 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisol
e (BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
15, 180 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluen
e (BHT) 
321 
200 mg/kg 
15, 180 
CHLOROPH
YLLS  AND 
CHLOROPH
YLLIN 
COPPER 
COMPLEXE
 
500 mg/kg 
95 


<<<PAGE 249>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
bonito) 
S,  
Canthaxanthin  161g 
15 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
30,000 mg/kg  50 
Caramel IV –
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
30,000 mg/kg 95 
beta-
Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(ii) 
500 mg/kg 
 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
 
340 mg/kg 
 21 
IRON 
OXIDE 
 
50 mg/kg 
95 
 Neotame 
961 
10 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHAT
ES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
RIBOFLAVI
NS 
 
500 mg/kg 
95 
SACCHARI
NS 
 
200 mg/kg 
144 
SULFITES 
 
150 mg/kg 
44, 140 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogala
ctosucrose) 
955 
120 mg/kg 
144 
Carboxy 
466 
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 250>>>
Table 9 
Fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
Food 
Categor
y 
System  
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive  
INS No 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
 Note 
methyl 
cellulose 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 251>>>
Table 10 
Eggs and eggs products 
Food  
category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommend
ed Maximum 
Level  
Notes  
10.0 
Eggs and  
egg products 
 
 
 
 
10.1 
Fresh egg 
No additives permitted 
  
10.2 
Egg products 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
10.2.1 
Liquid 
egg 
products 
BENZOATES  
 
5,000 mg/kg 
13 
PHOSPHATES 
 
4,400 mg/kg 
67, 33 
SORBATES  
 
5,000 mg/kg 
42 
Triethyl citrate  
1505 
2,500 mg/kg 
  
Acetic 
acid, 
glacial 
260 
GMP 
  
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Lactic acid L-, D- 
and DL- 
270 
GMP 
  
Sodium acetate 
262(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
citrate   
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium lactate 
325 
GMP 
  
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii
) 
GMP 
  
Agar 
406 
GMP 
  
Calcium alginate 
404 
GMP 
  
Carob bean gum 
410 
GMP 
  
Carrageenan 
407 
GMP 
  
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
  
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
  
Gum 
414 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 252>>>
Table 10 
Eggs and eggs products 
Food  
category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommend
ed Maximum 
Level  
Notes  
arabic(Acacia 
gum) 
Karaya gum 
416 
GMP 
  
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
  
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
  
Micro crystalline 
cellulose 
(cellulose gel) 
460(i) 
GMP 
  
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
Polydextroses 
1200 
GMP 
  
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
407a 
GMP 
  
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium alginate  
401 
GMP 
  
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
  
52[omit 
 
 
] 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
  
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
  
10.2.2 
Frozen 
egg 
products 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,290 mg/kg 
67, 33 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Acetic 
acid, 260 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 253>>>
Table 10 
Eggs and eggs products 
Food  
category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommend
ed Maximum 
Level  
Notes  
glacial 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Lactic acid L-, D- 
and DL  
270 
GMP 
  
Sodium acetate  
262(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium lactate 
325 
GMP 
  
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii
) 
GMP 
  
Agar 
406 
GMP 
  
Calcium alginate 
404 
GMP 
  
Carob bean gum 
410 
GMP 
  
Carrageenan 
407 
GMP 
  
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
  
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
  
Gum 
arabic(Acacia 
gum) 
414 
GMP 
  
Karaya gum 
416 
GMP 
  
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
  
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
  
Micro crystalline 
cellulose 
(cellulose gel) 
460(i) 
GMP 
  
Mannitol 
421 
 GMP 
  
Mono- and di-
glycerides 
of 
471 
 GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 254>>>
Table 10 
Eggs and eggs products 
Food  
category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommend
ed Maximum 
Level  
Notes  
fatty acids 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
Polydextrose 
1200 
GMP 
  
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
407a 
GMP 
  
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium alginate  
401 
GMP 
  
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
  
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
  
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
200 mg/kg 
21, 47 
52[omit 
 
 
] 
Triethyl citrate  
1505 
2,500 mg/kg 
47 
10.2.3 
Dried and/or 
heat 
coagulated 
egg products 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
 
200 mg/kg 
21, 47 


<<<PAGE 255>>>
Table 10 
Eggs and eggs products 
Food  
category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommend
ed Maximum 
Level  
Notes  
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Triethyl citrate  
1505 
2,500 mg/kg 
47 
10.3 
Preserved 
eggs 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
33 
10.4 
Egg 
based 
deserts 
e.g. 
custard 
Acesulfame 
potassium  
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS  
 
500 mg/kg 
10, 2 
Aspartame  
951 
1,000 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester  
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
100 mg/kg 
 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,400 mg/kg 
33 
POLYSORBAT
ES  
 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate  
310 
90 mg/kg 
15, 2 
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
40,000 mg/kg   
SACCHARINS    
100 mg/kg 
144 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
Steviol 
glycosides  
960 
330 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
400 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 256>>>
Table 10 
Eggs and eggs products 
Food  
category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommend
ed Maximum 
Level  
Notes  
Sucroglycerides  
474 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Brilliant 
Blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
  
150 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
  
300 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV- 
Sulfite ammonia 
Caramel 
150d 
20,000 mg/kg   
Caramel 
III 
– 
ammonia caramel 
52[150
c] 
20,000 mg/kg   
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
50 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
  
200 mg/kg 
  
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 257>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
11.0 
Sweeteners 
including 
honey 
 
  
  
  
11.1 
Refined 
and 
raw sugars 
No additives permitted 
  
11.1.1 
White sugar, 
dextrose 
anhydrous, 
dextrose 
monohydrate, 
fructose  
(dextrose) 
SULFITES 
 
15 mg/kg 
44 
  
Refined Sugar  SULFITES 
 
20 mg/kg 
  
11.1.2 
Powdered 
sugar, 
powdered 
dextrose (icing 
sugar) 
Calcium silicate 
552 
15,000 mg/kg 
56 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
15,000 mg/kg     56 
carbonates 
of 
calcium  
170(i) 
15,000 mg/kg       
Magnesium 
silicate, synthetic 
553(i) 
15,000 mg/kg     56 
Silicates 
of 
aluminium  or 
sodium 
(aluminium 
silicate, 
sodium 
alluminosilicate, 
calcium 
aluminium 
silicate) 
559, 
554, 
556 
15,000 mg/kg      
PHOSPHATES 
 
6,600 mg/kg 
56,33 
SULFITES 
 
20 mg/kg 
44  
Silicon 
dioxide, 551 
15,000 mg/kg 
56   


<<<PAGE 258>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
amorphous 
11.1.3 
Soft 
white 
sugar, 
soft 
brown sugar, 
glucose syrup, 
dried glucose 
syrup, 
raw 
cane 
sugar, 
khandsarisug
ar 
(sulphur 
sugar),  bura  
sugar 
SULFITES 
 
150 mg/kg 
44, 111 
  
Khandsari 
sugar (desi) 
No additives permitted 
  
 
 
11.1.3.1 
Dried glucose 
syrup 
for 
manufacture 
of 
sugar 
confectionery    
(dried glucose 
syrup) 
SULFITES 
 
20 mg/kg            111,44  
11.1.3.2 
Glucose syrup 
for 
manufacture  
of 
sugar 
confectionery 
(golden syrup) 
SULFITES 
 
20 mg/kg            111,44 
11.1.4 
Lactose 
No additives permitted 
  
11.1.5 
Plantation or 
mill 
white 
sugar 
(plantation 
SULFITES 
 
70 mg/kg            44  


<<<PAGE 259>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
white 
sugar,  
cube 
sugar, 
misri) 
52[11.1.6 
Gur 
or 
Jaggery 
Sulfites 
 
50 mg/Kg 
Residue 
not 
to 
exceed 
50mg/K
g in the 
end 
product
] 
52[11.1.6.1 
Cane 
Jaggery/Gur 
 
 
 
 
11.1.6.2 
Palm 
Jaggery/Gur 
 
 
 
 
11.1.6.3 
Date 
Jaggery/Gur] 
 
 
 
 
11.2 
Brown sugar 
excluding 
products 
of 
food category 
11.1.3 
SULFITES 
 
40 mg/kg      
44  
11.3 
Sugar 
solutions and 
syrups, 
also 
(partially) 
inverted, 
including 
treacle 
and 
molasses, 
excluding 
products 
of 
food category 
11.1.3 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/Kg   
  
 
 
 
SULFITES 
 
70 mg/kg   
44 


<<<PAGE 260>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
11.4 
Other sugars 
and 
syrups 
(e.g. 
xylose, 
maple syrup, 
sugar 
toppings) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg    
10 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
159, 
188 
Acetic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol  
472a  
GMP               
258 
Acetylated 
distarch adipate  
1422 
GMP               
258 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate  
1414 
GMP               
258 
Acid-treated 
starch  
1401 
GMP               
258 
Agar  
406 
GMP               
258 
Alginic acid  
400 
GMP               
258 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Alkaline 
treated 
starch  
1402 
GMP               
258 
Allura red AC 
129 
200 mg/kg 
 
Ammonium 
alginate  
403 
GMP     
258 
Aspartame 
951 
3,000 mg/kg 
159, 
191 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Bleached starch  
  
GMP 
258 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
 50 mg/kg 
217 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
 
 64 mg/kg 
62 


<<<PAGE 261>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
Calcium acetate 
263 
GMP 
258 
Calcium alginate  404 
GMP 
259 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
15 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
100 
Carob bean gum  
410 
GMP 
258 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
50 mg/kg 
  
Carrageenan  
407 
GMP 
258 
Citric and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol  
472c  
GMP 
258 
Distarch 
phosphate  
1412 
GMP 
258 
Gellan gum  
418 
GMP 
258 
Guar gum  
412 
GMP 
258 
Gum 
arabic 
(Acacia gum)  
414 
GMP 
258 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
100 mg/kg 
27 
Hydroxypropyl 
cellulose  
463 
GMP 
258 
Hydroxypropyl 
distarch 
phosphate  
1442 
GMP 
258 
Hydroxypropyl 
methyl cellulose  
464 
GMP 
258 
Hydroxypropyl 
starch  
1440 
GMP 
258 


<<<PAGE 262>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
Indigotine 
(Indigo carmine) 
132 
300 mg/kg   
 
Karaya gum  
416 
GMP 
258 
Konjac flour  
425 
GMP 
258 
Lactic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol  
472b  
GMP 
258 
Lecithins  
322(i), 
(ii)  
GMP 
258 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
GMP 
258 
Magnesium 
chloride  
511 
GMP 
258 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
528 
GMP 
258 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
carbonate 
504(ii) GMP 
258 
Mannitol  
421 
GMP 
258 
Methyl cellulose  
461 
GMP 
258 
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose  
465 
GMP 
258 
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
(cellulose gel)  
460(i)  GMP 
258 
Mono- and di-
glycerides 
of 
fatty acids  
471 
GMP 
258 
Monostarch 
phosphate  
1410 
GMP 
258 
Neotame 
961 
70 mg/kg 
159 
Oxidized starch  
1404 
GMP 
258 


<<<PAGE 263>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,320 mg/kg 
56,33 
Pectins  
440 
GMP 
258 
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate  
1413 
GMP 
258 
Polydextrose 
1200 
GMP 
258 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
300 mg/kg 
159 
Potassium 
alginate  
402 
GMP 
258 
Potassium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  
Powdered 
cellulose  
460(ii)  GMP 
258 
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed  
407a  
GMP 
258 
Propylene glycol 
esters 
of 
fatty 
acids 
477 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
159 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
40 mg/kg 
44 
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium  
470(i)  GMP 
71, 258 


<<<PAGE 264>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
Salts of oleic acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium  
470(ii)  GMP 
258 
Sodium alginate  
401 
GMP 
258 
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
258 
Sodium 
dihydrogen 
citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
258 
Starches, enzyme 
treated  
1405 
GMP 
258 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
1,500 mg/kg 
159,  
Tragacanth gum  
413 
GMP 
258 
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(ii) GMP 
258 
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii
) 
GMP 
258 
Xanthan gum  
415 
GMP 
258 
11.5 
Honey  
No additives permitted 
  
11.6 
Table-top 
sweeteners 
including 
those 
containing 
high-intensity 
sweeteners         
(saccharin 
sodium, 
aspartame, 
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
7 mg/ 100 mg  
In 
tablet 
/liquid 
and 
powder 
forms, 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
GMP   
  


<<<PAGE 265>>>
Table 11 
Sweeteners including honey 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d 
Maximum 
Level 
Notes 
acesulfame 
potassium, 
sucralose) 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
GMP    
188 
75[Omitted] 
 
  
  
Aspartame 
951 
GMP    
191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
GMP    
  
BENZOATES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
13 
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,200 mg/kg 
213 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
96,21  
Neotame 
961 
GMP 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
56 ,33 
Polyethylene 
glycol 
1521 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Polyvinylpyrrolid
one 
1201 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARINS 
 
GMP 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42,192 
 
 
 
 
 
 


<<<PAGE 266>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
12.0 
Salts, spices, 
soups, 
sauces, 
salads 
and 
protein 
products 
 
  
  
  
12.1 
Salt and salt 
substitutes 
No additives permitted 
  
12.1.1 
Salt 
(including 
edible 
common salt, 
iron fortified 
salt, iodized 
salt)* 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
20 g/kg  
  
Calcium silicate 
552 
20 g/kg 
  
FERROCYANI
DES 
 
10 mg/kg 
24, 107 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
20 g/kg  
  
Magnesium oxide 530 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
silicate, synthetic  
553(i) 
20 g/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
8,800 mg/kg  
33 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
10 mg/kg 
  
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(i) 
20 g/kg  
71 
Silicon 
dioxide 
amorphous 
551 
GMP 
  
52[Sodium 
554 
1,000 mg/kg 
6,254 


<<<PAGE 267>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
aluminosilicate] 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
  
50 mg/kg 
  
Adipic acid 
355 
250 mg/kg 
  
*Only the following additives permitted in 
double fortified salt 
 
Hydroxy 
propyl 
methyl cellulose 
464 
GMP 
 
Titanium dioxide 
171 
GMP 
 
12.1.2 
Salt 
substitutes 
Diacetyl 
tartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
16,000 mg/kg 
  
FERROCYANI
DES 
 
20 mg/kg 
24 
PHOSPHATES 
 
4,400 mg/kg 
  
Calcium lactate  
327 
GMP 
  
Citric acid  
330 
GMP 
  
Fumaric acid 
297 
GMP 
  
Lactic acid, L-, 
D- and DL 
270 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
528 
GMP 
  
Magnesium 
hydroxide  
carbonate 
504(ii) GMP 
  
Malic acid, dl- 
296 
GMP 
  
Potassium 
dihydrogen citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 268>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
Sodium acetate 
262(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium carbonate 500(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium 
dihydrogen citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
  
Sodium fumarates 365 
GMP 
  
Tripotassium 
citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
  
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii
) 
GMP 
  
12.2 
Herbs, 
spices, 
seasonings 
and 
condiments 
(e.g. 
seasoning for 
instant 
noodles) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
 10 
Acesulfame K 
950 
2,000 mg/kg 
188 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
15, 130 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
15, 130 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
70 mg/kg 
21  
Neotame 
961 
32 mg/kg 
 
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
 15, 130 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 42 
Tertiary 
butyl 
hydroquinone 
319 
200 mg/kg 
  
12.2.1 
52[Herbs, 
spices, 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 269>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
masalas, 
spice 
mixtures 
including 
oleoresins or 
extracts/deri
vatives 
thereof] 
SULFITES 
 
150 mg/kg 
  
12.2.2 
Seasonings 
and 
condiments 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
Aspartame 
951 
2,000 mg/kg 
 
Curcumin 
100 
GMP 
 
FERROCYANI
DES 
 
20 mg/kg 
24 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
, 
69[226] 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Sucralose 
955 
700 mg/kg 
 
SULFITES 
 
200 mg/kg 
44 
Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
 
52[Caramel IV – 
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
10,000 mg/kg 
 
Paprika oleoresin 
160c(i
) 
GMP] 
 


<<<PAGE 270>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
12.3 
Vinegars 
BENZOATES 
210 
1,000 mg/kg 
Only 
in 
brewed 
vinegar 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
GMP 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
GMP 
  
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
  
Polyvinylpyrrolid
one 
1201 
40 mg/kg 
  
SULFITES 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
12.4 
Mustards 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 38 
50 mg/kg 
  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Aspartame 
951 
350 mg/kg 
 191 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
300 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 271>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 200 mg/kg 
 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
  
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Neotame 
961 
12 mg/kg 
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
320 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 272>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
SULFITES 
 
250 mg/kg 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
140 mg/kg 
 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
Tertiary 
butylhydroquinon
e (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
  
12.5 
Soups 
and 
broths 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
110 mg/kg 
  
75[Omitted] 
 
 
  
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
1,200 mg/kg 
  
BENZOATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
15, 130 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
100mg/kg 
15, 
130,340 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
300 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
 
400 mg/kg 
  
  


<<<PAGE 273>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
CHLOROPHYL
LIN, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
25,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
25,000 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 500 mg/kg 
  
IRON OXIDES 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
20 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
GMP 
  
SACCHARINS 
 
110 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
600 mg/kg 
  
Sucroglycerides 
474 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tertiary 
319 
200 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 274>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
butylhydroquinon
e (TBHQ) 
Polydimethylsilo
xane   
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
1,000 mg/kg  
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Tartaric acid  
334 
GMP 
  
Curcumin 
100  
GMP 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
GMP 
 
Annatto 
160b 
(i),(ii) 
GMP 
 
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 
Sulphur dioxide 
220 
150 mg/kg 
 
12.5.1 
Ready-to-eat 
soups 
and 
broths 
including 
canned, 
bottled, and 
frozen 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
50 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
50 mg/kg 
 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
50 mg/kg 
 
12.5.2 
Mixes 
for 
soups 
and 
broths 
CAROTENOID
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
GMP 
 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 275>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
Steviol glycosides 960 
50 mg/kg 
 
Indigotine (Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
50 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
127 
52[Sodium 
aluminosilicate] 
554 
570 mg/kg 
6 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
50 mg/kg 
 
Sulphur dioxide  
220 
350 mg/kg 
Carry 
over from 
fruit 
products 
Tartaric acid 
334 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin  
 100 
GMP 
 
12.6 
Sauces 
and 
like products 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame 
951 
350 mg /kg 
  
Indigotine (indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
15, 130 
Butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
100 mg/kg 
15, 130 


<<<PAGE 276>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
30 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
30,000 mg/kg 
  
Guaiac resin 
314 
600 mg/kg 
  
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
  
IRON OXIDES 
 
75 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
50 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
350 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
160 mg/kg 
 
SULFITES 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
450 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
10,000 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 277>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
Tertiary 
butylhydroquinon
e (TBHQ) 
319 
200 mg/kg 
  
L-Tartaric acid 
  
GMP  
  
Dimethyl 
polysiloxane 
  
GMP  
 
52[Propylene 
glycol  alginate 
405 
200 mg/kg] 
  
12.6.1 
Emulsified 
sauces 
and 
dips 
(e.g. 
mayonnaise, 
sald 
dressings, 
onion dips) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
  
500 mg/kg  
 10, 15 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
3,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160b(i
),(ii) 
GMP 
 
Steviol glycosides 960 
350 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 278>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
Paprika oleoresin 
160c(i
) 
GMP 
 
12.6.2 
Non 
emulsified 
sauces 
(e.g 
ketchup, 
cheese sauce, 
cream sauce, 
brown gravy) 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
500 mg/kg 
10  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
75 mg/kg 
21 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160b(i
),(ii) 
GMP 
 
Steviol glycosides 960 
350 mg/kg 
 
Paprika oleoresin 
160c(i
) 
GMP 
 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
70 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42,127 
12.6.3 
Mixes 
for 
sauces 
and 
gravies 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 10 
Curcumin  
100 
GMP 
  
Annatto 
160b(i
),(ii) 
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 279>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
Steviol glycosides 960 
350 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
12 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
aluminosilicate 
554 
570 mg/kg 
 
12.6.4 
Clear sauces  ASCORBYL 
ESTERS  
 
200 mg/kg 
10  
 
Aspartame 
951 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
12 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
5,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Steviol glycosides 960 
350 mg/kg 
 
12.7 
Salads 
(e.g. 
macaroni 
salad, potato 
salad) 
and 
sandwich 
spreads 
excluding 
cocoa-and 
nut-based 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
10 
Aspartame 
951 
350 mg/kg 
  
BENZOATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOID
S 
 
50 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 150c 
50,000 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 280>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
spreads 
of 
food 
categories 
4.2.2.5 
and 
5.1.3 
ammonia caramel 
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 1,500 mg/kg 
  
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
200 mg/kg 
 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Steviol glycosides 960 
115 mg/kg 
 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalacto
sucrose) 
955 
1,250 mg/kg 
  
12.8 
Yeast 
and 
like products 
Butylated 
hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
15 
70[Sorbitan 
monostearate 
491 
10,000 mg/kg] 
 


<<<PAGE 281>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
12.9 
Soybean-
based 
seasonings 
and 
condiments 
PHOSPHATES 
 
1,200 mg/kg 
  
12.9.1 
Fermented 
soybean 
paste  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
30 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
200 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
12.9.2 
Soybean 
sauce 
82[BENZOATES 
 
750 mg/kg] 
 
12.9.2.1 Fermented 
soybean 
sauce 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
20,000 mg/kg 
207 
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
60,000 mg/kg 
 
SACCHARINS 
 
500 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 42 
Steviol glycosides 960 
30 mg/kg 
26 
12.9.2.2 Non-
fermented 
soybean 
sauce 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
1,500 mg/kg 
 
Steviol glycosides 960 
165 mg/kg 
26 
12.9.2.3 Other 
soybean 
sauces 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
20,000 mg/kg 
 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 42 
Steviol glycosides 960 
165 mg/kg 
26 
12.10 
Protein 
products 
 
 
 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 282>>>
Table 12 
Salts, spices, soups, salads and protein products 
Food 
categor
y 
System 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommended 
Maximum  
Level 
Note 
other 
than 
from 
soybeans 


<<<PAGE 283>>>
 
 
 
Table 13 
Foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses 
Food 
Category 
system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food 
Additive 
INS No 
Recommen
ded 
Maximum  
level 
Note 
13.0 
Food 
Stuffs 
intended 
for 
particular 
nutritional 
uses 
Food additive provisions for the products under these 
categories are provided in the relevant standards of 
Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards 
and Food Additives) Regulations, 2011 or Food 
Safety and Standards (Food or Health Supplements, 
Nutraceuticals, Foods for Special Dietary Uses, Foods 
for Special Medical Purpose, Functional Foods, and 
Novel Food) Regulations, 2016 as the case may be. 
 
 
 
Table 14 
Beverages, excluding dairy products 
Food 
Categor
y 
system 
Food Category 
Name 
Food Additive 
INS 
No 
Recommende
d Maximum  
level 
Note 
14.0 
Beverages, 
excluding dairy 
products  
 
 
 
  
14.1 
Non-alcoholic 
(“soft”) 
beverages  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.1.1 
Waters  
No additives permitted 
  
14.1.1.1 Natural 
mineral waters 
and 
source 
 
No additives permitted 
  


<<<PAGE 284>>>
waters 
14.1.1.2  Table 
waters 
and sold waters  
No additives permitted 
  
14.1.2 
Fruit 
and 
vegetable juices  
 
 
 
  
14.1.2.1 
  
  
  
  
  
Fruit 
juices 
(fruit juices for 
industrial use, 
thermally 
processed fruits 
juices) 
 
  
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
69 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
91,13 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
115 
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
 
PHOSPHATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
40, 33 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
 35 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 91,42 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
 44 
 
Insertion 
of 
provision 
82[For 
industrial 
use 
at 
1000 
mg/kg 
maximu
m] 
 
[This 
amendme
nt 
shall 
come into 
force on 
1st 
Septembe


<<<PAGE 285>>>
r, 2023] 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
  
TARTRATES 
 
4,000 mg/kg 
45 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP  
  
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP  
 
Calcium alginate 404 
GMP  
 
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
405 
GMP  
 
Gum arabic 
414 
GMP 
 
Potassium 
alginate 
402  
GMP 
 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
 
52[Glycerol ester 
of wood resin] 
445(iii
) 
100 mg/kg 
 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
 
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
 
Acetic acid 
260 
GMP  
  
Lactic acid 
270 
GMP  
  
L-Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
  
Nitrogen  
918 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
 
70[Nisin 
234 
5,000 IU 
FS04b] 
14.1.2.2 
  
  
  
  
  
Vegetable 
juices(vegetable 
juices 
for 
industrial use, 
thermally 
processed 
vegetable 
juices, 
thermally 
processed 
tomato juice) 
  
  
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
  
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44 
Insertion 
of 
provision 
82[For 
industrial 
use 
at 
1000 


<<<PAGE 286>>>
mg/kg 
maximu
m] 
 
[This 
amendme
nt 
shall 
come into 
force on 
1st 
Septembe
r, 2023] 
Lactic acid 
270 
GMP 
  
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
 
L-Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
  
PHOSPHATES  
GMP  
33  
Sucralose 
955 
250 mg/kg 
  
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
 
TOCOPHERO
LS 
 
GMP 
 
Acetic acid 
260 
GMP 
  
BENZOATES  
 
600 mg/kg 
 13 
Sulphur 
dioxide 
220 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
14.1.2.3 
  
  
Concentrates of 
fruitjuices 
(concentrated 
fruit juices for 
industrial use) 
  
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
127 
Acetic acid 
260 
GMP 
 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13, 127, 
91 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
GMP 
127 
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
69, 127 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
127 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
127 
Lactic acid 
270 
GMP 
127 
PHOSPHATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
127, 33, 
40 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
35, 127 


<<<PAGE 287>>>
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
127, 91, 
42 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44, 127 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
127 
TARTRATES 
 
4,000 mg/kg 
129, 128, 
127, 45 
Dimethyl 
polysiloxane 
900a 
10mg/kg 
  
Mono-and 
diglycerides 
of 
fatty 
acids of 
edible oils 
471 
10mg/kg 
  
Nitrogen 
918 
GMP 
 
52[omit 
 
] 
  
Alginic acid  
400 
GMP 
  
Acetic acid 
260 
GMP 
  
14.1.2.4 
  
Concentrates of 
vegetable juices 
(concentrated 
vegetable 
Juices 
for 
industrial use) 
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Sucralose 
955 
1,250 mg/kg 
 127 
Lactic acid 
270 
GMP 
  
Dimethylpolysil
oxane 
 900a 
10 mg/kg 
 127 
52[Mono-and 
diglycerides 
of 
fatty acids] 
471 
10mg/kg 
 127 
Nitrogen  
52[941
] 
GMP 
  
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
 
Malic acid – DL 296 
GMP 
 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44, 127 
For 
industrial 
use 1,500 
mg/kg 
max 


<<<PAGE 288>>>
 
Amendm
ent 
for 
substituti
on 
of 
highlight
ed 
provision 
 
82[44, 
127, For 
industria
l use at 
1500 
mg/kg 
maximu
m] 
 
[This 
amendme
nt 
shall 
come into 
force on 
1st 
Septembe
r, 2023] 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
  
Acetic acid 
260 
GMP 
  
BENZOATES 
 
600 mg/kg  
 13 
SORBATES 
 
100 mg/kg  
 42,127 
14.1.3 
Fruit 
and 
vegetable 
nectars  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
200 mg/kg 
26 
14.1.3.1 Fruit nectar 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 289>>>
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
 191 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
GMP 
  
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
91, 13 
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
69 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
  
PHOSPHATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
 40,33 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
SACCHARINS  
80 mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 42, 91 
SULFITES 
 
70mg/kg 
 44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
300 mg/kg 
  
TARTRATES 
 
4,000 mg/kg 
128,  45 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
  
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP  
 
Calcium alginate 404 
GMP  
 
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
405 
GMP  
 
Chlorophylls 
140 
100 mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
150a 
100 mg/kg 
  
Curcumin  
100 
100 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin  
161g 
100 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVIN
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160b(i
),(ii) 
100 mg/kg 
  
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 290>>>
14.1.3.2 Vegetable 
nectar 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
  
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES 
 
120 mg/kg 
13 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg 
 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
  
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
SACCHARINS  
80 mg/kg 
 
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 
SORBATES 
 
300 mg/kg 
42 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
300 mg/kg 
 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
  
Chlorophylls 
140 
100 mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
150a 
100 mg/kg 
  
52[Omit 
 
] 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin  
161g 
100 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVIN
S 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160(b) 
(i), (ii) 
100 mg/kg 
  
SULPHITES 
 
70 mg/kg 
44 
Sodium 
hexametaphosph
ate 
452(i) 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
 
14.1.3.3 Concentrates of 
fruit nectar 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
 188, 127 


<<<PAGE 291>>>
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
127 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
 
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP  
 
Calcium alginate 404 
GMP  
 
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
405 
GMP  
 
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
191, 127 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13,91,127 
Calcium 
ascorbate 
302 
GMP 
127 
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
69, 127 
Citric acid 
330 
5,000 mg/kg 
127 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
127 
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
 
PHOSPHATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
40, 33, 12
7 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
127 
SACCHARINS  
80 mg/kg 
127 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
127, 91, 
42 
Sodium 
ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
127 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
300 mg/kg 
127 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44, 127 
TARTRATES 
 
4,000 mg/kg 
45,127 
14.1.3.4 Concentrates of 
vegetable 
nectar 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
127,188 
Ascorbic 
acid, 
L- 
300 
GMP 
  
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
127 
BENZOATES 
 
600 mg/kg 
13,127 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
  
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
  


<<<PAGE 292>>>
Neotame 
961 
65 mg/kg 
127 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
  
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
127, 44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
300 mg/kg 
  
127 
14.1.4 
Water-based 
flavoured 
drinks, 
including 
“sport,”“energ
y,” 
or 
“electrolyte” 
drinks 
and 
particulated 
drinks, includes 
carbonated 
fruit beverages, 
carbonated 
beverages with 
fruit 
ASCORBYL 
ESTERS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
 15, 10 
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
600 mg/kg 
 188 
75[Omitted] 
 
 
 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
127 
Anthocyanins 
163(i), 
(iii) 
GMP 
 
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
191 
BENZOATES 
 
600 mg/kg 
13, 301,1
23 
Beeswax 
901 
200 mg/kg 
131 
Brilliant 
blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOI
DS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHY
LLS 
AND 
CHLOROPHY
LLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
300 mg/kg 
 127 
Candelilla wax 
902 
200 mg/kg 
131 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
5,000 mg/kg 
 9 
Caramel IV –
sulfite ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 mg/kg  127 
Carnauba wax 
903 
200 mg/kg 
131 


<<<PAGE 293>>>
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
2,000 mg/kg 
  
Cyclodextrin, 
beta- 
459 
500 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and fatty acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg 
127 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
 21 
Fast green FCF 
143 
100 mg/kg 
  
Glycerol ester of 
wood rosin 
445(iii
) 
150 mg/kg 
100 
mg/kg 
max 
for 
carbonate
d water 
Grape 
skin 
extract 
163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
181,127 
HYDROXYBE
NZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
500 mg/kg 
27 
IRON OXIDES  
100 mg/kg 
 
Indigotine 
(Indigo carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Isopropyl 
citrates 
384 
200 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES  
1,000 mg/kg 
 33,127 
POLYSORBA
TES 
 
500 mg/kg 
127 
Polydimethylsil
oxane 
900a 
20 mg/kg 
 127 
Polyethylene 
glycol 
1521 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
50 mg/kg 


<<<PAGE 294>>>
max 
for 
carbonate
d water 
Propyl gallate 
310 
1,000 mg/kg 
15 
Propylene glycol 
esters of fatty 
acids 
477 
500 mg/kg 
  
QUILLAIA 
EXTRACTS 
 
50 mg/kg 
52[293, 
132] 
RIBOFLAVIN
S 
 
100mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
42, 127 
SULFITES 
 
70 mg/kg 
143, 44, 
127 
Stannous 
chloride 
512 
20 mg/kg 
43 
Stearyl citrate 
484 
500 mg/kg 
  
Steviol 
glycosides 
960 
200 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalact
osucrose) 
955 
  
300 mg/kg 
 
127 
Annatto 
160b(i
), (ii) 
100 mg/kg 
 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
100 mg/kg 
 
Curcumin 
100 
100 mg/kg 
 
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
 
Erythrosine 
127 
50 mg/kg 
 
Dimethyl 
dicarbonate 
242 
250 mg/kg 
18 
(subject 
to 
a 
maximu
m 
methanol 
content in 
final 
product 


<<<PAGE 295>>>
as 
200 
mg/litre) 
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 
Tartrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
200 mg/kg 
219 
Sucrose acetate 
isobutyrate 
444 
500 mg/kg 
  
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
127 
THIODIPROP
IONATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
15, 46 
Triethyl citrate 
1505 
200 mg/kg 
  
Quinine salts 
 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
 
 
82[TARTRATES 
 
800 mg/kg] 
 
14.1.4.1 
  
  
Carbonated 
water-based 
flavoured 
drinks 
(beverages non-
alcoholic-
cabonated, 
carbonated 
water) 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
5 mg/kg 
 
Lauric arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
50 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVIN
S 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARINS  
300 mg/kg 
 
 
 
14.1.4.2 Non-
carbonated 
water-based 
flavoured 
drinks 
including 
punches 
and 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
50 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
50 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
L-Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
 
77[No colours permitted in iced tea and iced tea 
mixes.] 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 296>>>
ades, ginger 
cocktail (ginger 
beer 
and 
gingerale), 
thermally 
processed fruit 
beverages/ fruit 
drinks/ready to 
serve 
fruit 
beverages 
Curcumin  
100 
200 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
200 mg/kg 
 
CAROTENOIDS  
200 mg/kg 
 
52[omit 
 
 
 
 
 
] 
 
Annatto 
52[160
b 
(i), 
(ii)] 
200 mg/kg 
 
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
Carmoisine 
122 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
Erythrosine 
127 
100 mg/kg 
XT99 
Tartarzine 
102 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
Indogotine 
(Indigo carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
Brilliant 
Blue 
FCF 
133 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
Fast green FCF 
143 
200 mg/kg 
XT99 
BENZOATES 
 
600 mg/kg 
  
SULFITES 
 
350 mg/kg 
XT100 
SORBATES  
 
1,000 mg/kg XT101 
Propylene glycol 
alginate 
 405 
GMP 
  
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
 
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP  
 
Calcium alginate 
404 
GMP  
 


<<<PAGE 297>>>
52[omit 
 
 
] 
Glycerol ester of 
wood rosin 
445(iii
) 
100 mg/kg 
  
Sodium 
aluminium silicate  
 554 
5 g/kg  
  
14.1.4.3 Concentrates 
(liquid or solid) 
for water-based 
flavoured 
drinks 
(synthetic 
syrups 
for 
dispensers, 
sharbat 
(synthetic 
syrup)*, 
squashes, 
crushes, 
fruit 
syrups, cordials 
and barley water 
77[No colours permitted in iced tea and iced tea 
mixes.] 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
5 mg/kg 
 127, 
XT102 
Ferric ammonium 
citrate 
381 
10 mg/kg 
 23 
Lauric 
arginate 
ethyl ester 
243 
50 mg/kg 
 127 
Polyvinylpyrrolid
one 
1201 
500 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
50 mg/kg 
 XT102 
SACCHARINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
127 
70[*The following additives permitted in 
synthetic syrups for dispensers 
127] 
L-Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
 
Phosphoric acid 
338 
GMP  
In 
cola 
beverages 
only 
SACCHARINS 
  
450 mg/kg 
  
Aspartame  
951 
3,000 mg/kg   
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
1,500 mg/kg   
Curcumin  
100 
200 mg/kg  
XT102 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a 
(ii) 
200 mg/kg 
XT102 
CAROTENOIDS   
200 mg/kg 
XT102 
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
200 mg/kg 
XT102 
Annatto 
160b 
(i), ii) 
200 mg/kg  
XT102 
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 298>>>
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
 127 
Carmoisine 
122 
200 mg/kg 
 127 
Erythrosine 
127 
100 mg/kg 
 127 
Tartarzine 
102 
200 mg/kg 
 127 
Sunset 
yellow 
FCF 
110 
200 mg/kg 
 127 
Indogotine 
(Indigo carmine) 
132 
200 mg/kg 
 127 
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
200 mg/kg  
 127 
Fast green FCF 
143 
200 mg/kg  
 127 
BENZOATES 
 
600mg/kg 
 127 
SULFITES 
 
350 mg/kg 
 44 
Glycerol ester of 
wood rosin 
 445(ii
i) 
450 mg/kg 
 127 
Quinine sulphate 
 
450 mg/kg 
Subject to 
100 
mg/kg in 
ready to 
serve 
beverage 
after 
dilution 
70[*The following additives are permitted 
in sharbat (synthetic syrup) 
127] 
L-Tartaric acid 
334 
GMP 
  
Curcumin  
100 
200 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
200 mg/kg 
  
CAROTENOIDS   
200 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin  
161g 
200 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
Annatto 
160(b) 200 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
200 mg/kg 
  
Saffron 
 
GMP 
 
Erythrosine 
127 
100mg/kg 
  
Carmosine 
122 
200 mg/kg 
 
Sunset 
yellow 110 
200mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 299>>>
FCF 
Indogotine 
(Indigo carmine) 
132 
200mg/kg 
  
Brilliant blue FCF 133 
200mg/kg 
  
Fast green FCF 
143 
200mg/kg 
  
Tartrazine 
102 
200 mg/kg 
 
BENZOATES  
 
600 mg/kg 
13  
SULFITES  
 
350 mg/kg 
122, 44 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 42 
Propylene  glycol 
alginate 
 405 
GMP 
  
14.1.5 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Coffee, 
coffee 
/coffee 
substitutes, tea, 
herbal 
infusions, 
and 
other hot cereal 
and 
grain 
beverages, 
excluding cocoa 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
600 mg/kg 
188, 160 
Acetic 
acid, 
glacial 
260 
GMP 
160 
Acetic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472a 
GMP 
160 
Acetylated 
distarch adipate 
1422 
GMP 
160 
Acetylated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1414 
GMP 
160 
Acid-treated 
starch 
1401 
GMP 
160 
Alginic acid 
400 
GMP 
160 
Agar 
406 
GMP 
160 
Alkaline 
treated 
starch 
1402 
GMP 
160 
Ascorbic acid, L- 
300 
GMP 
160 
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
160 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 13 
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
108 
Bleached starch 
1403 
GMP 
160 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
160 
Calcium chloride 
509 
GMP 
160 


<<<PAGE 300>>>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Calcium lactate 
327 
GMP 
160 
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
108 
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
59,160 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
10,000 
mg/kg 
7, 160 
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
10,000 
mg/kg 
7,127 
Carnauba wax 
903 
200 mg/kg 
108 
Carob bean gum 
410 
GMP 
160 
Carrageenan 
407 
GMP 
160 
Citric acid 
330 
GMP 
160 
Citric and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472c 
GMP 
160 
Dextrins, roasted 
starch 
1400 
GMP 
90,160 
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
500 mg/kg 
142 
Dimethyl 
dicarbonate 
242 
250 mg/kg 
18 
Distarch 
phosphate 
1412 
GMP 
160 
Disodium 
5’-
guanylate 
627 
GMP 
201 
Disodium 
5’- 
inosinate 
631 
GMP 
201 
Disodium 
5’- 
Ribonucleotides 
635 
GMP 
201 
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
386 
35 mg/kg 
21 
Fumaric acid 
297 
GMP 
160 
Gellan gum 
418 
GMP 
160 
Glycerol 
422 
GMP 
160 


<<<PAGE 301>>>
Guar gum 
412 
GMP 
160 
Gum 
arabic 
(Acacia gum) 
414 
GMP 
160 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
450 mg/kg 
27,160 
Hydroxypropyl 
cellulose 
463 
GMP 
160 
Hydroxypropyl 
distarch 
phosphate 
1442 
GMP 
160 
Hydroxypropyl 
methyl cellulose 
464 
GMP 
160 
Hydroxypropyl 
starch 
1440 
GMP 
160 
Karaya gum 
416 
GMP 
160 
Konjac flour 
425 
GMP 
160 
Lactic and fatty 
acid 
esters 
of 
glycerol 
472b 
GMP 
160 
Lecithins 
322(i), 
(ii) 
GMP 
160 
Magnesium 
carbonate 
504(i) 
GMP 
160 
Magnesium 
chloride 
511 
GMP 
160 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
528 
GMP 
160 
Magnesium 
hydroxide 
carbonate 
504(ii) GMP 
160 
Malic acid, DL- 
296 
GMP 
160 
Methyl cellulose 
461 
GMP 
160 
Methyl 
ethyl 
cellulose 
465 
GMP 
160 
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
460(i) 
GMP 
160 


<<<PAGE 302>>>
(cellulose gel) 
Mono- 
and 
di-
glycerides of fatty 
acids 
471 
GMP 
160 
Monosodium 
L- 
glutamate 
621 
GMP 
160 
Monostarch 
phosphate 
1410 
GMP 
160 
Neotame 
961 
50 mg/kg 
160 
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
160, 59 
Oxidized starch 
1404 
GMP 
 160 
PHOSPHATES 
 
300 mg/kg 
 33, 160 
Pectins 
440 
GMP 
 160 
Phosphated 
distarch 
phosphate 
1413 
GMP 
 160 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
GMP 
160 
Potassium 
chloride 
508 
GMP 
 160 
Potassium 
dihydrogen citrate 
332(i) 
GMP 
160 
Powdered 
cellulose 
460(ii) GMP 
 160 
Processed 
eucheuma 
seaweed 
407a 
GMP 
160 
Pullulan 
1204 
GMP 
160 
SACCHARINS 
 
200 mg/kg 
160 
SORBATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
42,160 
Salts of myristic, 
palmitic 
and 
stearic acids with 
ammonia, 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
470(i) 
GMP 
 160 


<<<PAGE 303>>>
sodium 
Salts of oleic acid 
with 
calcium, 
potassium 
and 
sodium 
470(ii) GMP 
 160 
Shellac, bleached 
904 
GMP 
 108 
Sodium 
DL-
malate 
350(ii) GMP 
 160 
Silicon 
dioxide, 
amorphous 
551 
GMP 
321 
Sodium acetate 
262(i) 
GMP 
160 
Sodium alginate 
401 
GMP 
160 
Sodium ascorbate 
301 
GMP 
160 
Sodium carbonate 500(i) 
GMP 
160 
Carboxymethyl 
cellulose  
466 
GMP 
160 
Sodium 
dihydrogen citrate 
331(i) 
GMP 
160 
Sodium fumarates 365 
GMP 
160 
Sodium gluconate 576 
GMP 
160 
Sodium hydrogen 
carbonate 
500(ii) GMP 
160 
Sodium lactate 
325 
GMP 
160 
Starches, enzyme 
treated 
1405 
GMP 
160 
Starch 
sodium 
octenyl succinate 
1450 
GMP 
160 
Steviol glycosides 960 
200 mg/kg 
160,26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
  
300 mg/kg 
160 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
1,000 mg/kg 176 
Tara gum 
417 
GMP 
160 
Tragacanth gum 
413 
GMP 
160 
Tripotassium 
332(ii) GMP 
160 


<<<PAGE 304>>>
citrate 
Trisodium citrate 
331(iii
) 
GMP 
160 
Xanthan gum 
415 
GMP 
160 
 
 
82[Sorbitol 
420(i
) 
GMP 
82[Inserti
on 
of 
provision
] 
[This 
amendm
ent shall 
come 
into 
force on 
1st 
Septemb
er, 
2023] 
 
 
Sorbitol syrup 
420(ii
) 
GMP 
 
 
Mannitol 
421 
GMP 
 
 
Isomalt 
953 
GMP 
 
 
Maltitol 
965(i
) 
GMP 
 
 
Maltitol syrup 
965(ii
) 
GMP 
 
 
Xylitol 
967 
GMP 
 
 
Lactitol 
966 
GMP 
 
 
Erythritol 
968 
GMP] 
14.2 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
including 
alcohol-free 
and 
low-
alcoholic 
counterparts 
  
  
 
  
14.2.1 
Beer 
andmalt 
beverages 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
600 mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA)  
 
25 mg/kg 
21 
Polydimethylsilox
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 305>>>
ane 
Polyvinylpyrrolid
one 
1201 
10 mg/kg 
36 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg  
44 
14.2.2 
Cider 
and 
perry 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000mg/kg 
124, 13 
CAROTENOIDS
- 
 
200 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
1,000 mg/kg   
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,000 mg/kg   
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
600 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
Dimethyl 
dicarbonate 
242 
250 mg/kg 
18 
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
181 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
200 mg/kg 
27 
Lysozyme 
1105 
500 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
880 mg/kg 
33 
Polydimethylsilox
ane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
 
Polyvinylpyrrolid
one 
1201 
2 mg/kg 
36 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
200 mg/kg  
44 
14.2.3 
Grape wines 
Dimethyl 
dicarbonate 
242 
200 mg/kg 
18 
Carbon dioxide 
290 
GMP 
60 


<<<PAGE 306>>>
Lysozyme 
1105 
500 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
200 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
350 mg/kg 
44, 103 
 
 
31[   52[ Malic acid, 
DL-, L-] 
296 
GMP  
FS04a 
 
 
Ascorbic acid L- 
300 
300 mg/kg 
 
 
 
Citric acid 
330 
1,000 mg/kg FS04a 
 
 
Tartaric 
acid 
L(+),DL 
334 
GMP 
FS04a 
 
 
Lactic acid 
270 
GMP 
FS04a 
 
 
Gum 
arabic 
(Acacia Gum) 
414 
300 mg/kg 
 
 
 
Tannins 
181 
GMP 
 
 
 
Metatartaric acid 
353 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
 
Caramel (plain) 
150a 
GMP  
(allowed 
only 
for 
liqueur 
wines) 
 
 
Carboxymethyl- 
Cellulose 
466 
100 mg/kg  
(For 
white and 
sparkling 
wines) 
 
 
Calcium 
carbonate 
170(i) 
GMP 
 
 
 
Polyvinyl- 
polypyrrolidone 
1202 
800 mg/kg 
 
 
 
Nitrogen 
941 
GMP 
 
 
 
Oxygen 
948 
GMP 
 
 
 
Isoascorbic 
acid 
(Erythorbic acid) 
315 
250 mg/ml 
 
 
 
52[Potassium-D,L-
, L(+)- tartrate, 
Potassium 
bitartrate 
336 
 
GMP] 
 
 
 
 
 
Calcium tartrate 
354 
GMP 
 
 
Copper 
sulphate 
(and 
Copper 
citrate) 
519,  
10mg/l 
 


<<<PAGE 307>>>
 
 
Argon 
938 
GMP 
 
 
 
Caramel II  
150 b 
GMP 
 
 
 
 
Yeast 
manno 
proteins 
 
GMP 
 
 
 
Potassium 
ferrocyanide 
536 
GMP 
 
 
 
Urease 
 
GMP 
 
 
 
Silver chloride 
 
10mg/l 
  
 
 
 
Ammonium 
phosphate 
342(i) 
300 mg/l 
 
 
 
Diammonium 
diphosphate 
342(ii) 300 mg/l  
 (for 
sparkling 
wines) 
 
 
Ammonium 
sulfate 
517 
300 mg/l  
(expresse
d as the 
salt) (for 
sparkling 
wines) 
 
 
Charcoal 
for 
oenogical 
use 
(Oenological 
Carbon)  
 
100 g/hl 
 
 
 
Ammonium 
bisulphite 
(ammonium 
hydrogen 
sulphite) 
- 
GMP 
 
 
 
 
Thiamin 
hydrochloride 
 
GMP 
 
 
 
Yeasts 
products  
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 308>>>
coming 
from 
degradation 
of 
yeasts (autolysate, 
inert cells). 
 
 
Potassium 
carbonate 
501(i) 
GMP 
 
 
 
Potassium 
bicarbonate 
(Potassium 
hydrogen 
carbonate) 
501(ii) GMP 
 
 
 
Lactic 
acid 
bacteria 
- 
GMP 
The lactic 
acid 
bacteria 
must 
belong to 
the 
Oenococc
us, 
Leuconos
toc, 
Lactobaci
llus 
and 
Pediococ
cus genus 
and must 
be 
isolated 
from 
grapes, 
musts, 
wine 
or 
have been 
derived 
from 
these 


<<<PAGE 309>>>
bacteria. 
 
 
Polyvinylpolypyrr
olidone 
1202 
800 mg/l 
 
 
 
 
Proteins 
from 
plant origin 
- 
GMP 
The plant 
protein 
extracted 
from 
wheat 
(Triticum 
vulgaris), 
peas 
(Pisum 
sativum), 
or 
potatoes 
(Solanum 
tuberosu
m).  
 
 
Casein 
- 
GMP  
 
 
 
Potassium 
caesinate 
- 
GMP  
 
 
 
Gelatin ( edible) 
- 
GMP  
Subject to 
proper 
label 
declaratio
n. These 
are 
processin
g aids. 
 
 
Isinglass 
(Fish 
Glue) 
 
 
GMP 
 
 
Egg 
white 
albumin 
 
GMP 
 
 
Silicon dioxide 
551 
GMP 
 
 
 
Bentonite 
558 
GMP 
 
 
 
Aluminium 
559 
GMP 
 


<<<PAGE 310>>>
silicate (Kaolin) 
 
 
β-Glucanases 
 
GMP 
 
 
 
Yeast 
protein 
extract 
- 
GMP 
The 
proteins 
of 
yeast 
of 
Saccharo
myces sp. 
yeast. 
 
 
Adsorbant 
Copolymer 
Treatment 
polyvinylimidazol
e 
– 
polyvinylpyrrolid
one (PVI/PVP) 
 
GMP 
 
 
 
 
 
Microcrystalline 
cellulose 
460 (i) GMP 
 
 
 
 
Calcium alginate  
404 
GMP 
(Allowed 
only 
for 
sparkling 
and semi-
sparkling 
wines 
obtained 
by 
fermentat
ion 
in 
bottle). 
 
 
Potassium 
alginate 
402 
GMP 
- 
 
 
Yeast 
- 
GMP 
- 


<<<PAGE 311>>>
 
 
Calcium phytate 
 
GMP 
- 
 
 
Chitosan 
 
GMP 
- 
 
 
Chitin-Glucan 
 
GMP 
- 
 
 
Mixture of Mono- 
and 
diglycerides 
of oleic Acid 
 
GMP 
-] 
14.2.3.1 Still 
grape 
wines 
 
 
 
 
14.2.3.2 Sparkling and 
semi sparkling 
grape wines 
 
 
 
 
14.2.3.3 Fortified grape 
wines, 
grape 
liquor 
wines 
and 
sweet 
grape wines 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
14.2.4 
Wines 
(other 
than grape) 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000mg/kg 
124, 13 
CAROTENOIDS  
200 mg/kg 
 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
1,000 mg/kg   
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1,000 mg/kg   
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
600 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
Dimethyl 
dicarbonate 
242 
250 mg/kg 
18 
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
181 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
200 mg/kg 
27 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  


<<<PAGE 312>>>
SORBATES 
 
500 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
200 mg/kg 
44 
14.2.5 
Mead 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000mg/kg 
13 
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
1, 
000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
– 
sulfiteammonia 
caramel 
150d 
1, 
000 
mg/kg 
  
Dimethyl 
dicarbonate 
242 
200 mg/kg 
18 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
200 mg/kg 
27 
PHOSPHATES 
 
440 mg/kg 
33,88 
SORBATES  
 
200 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
200 mg/kg 
44 
14.2.6 
Distilled 
spirituous 
beverages 
containing 
more than 15 
% alcohol 
CAROTENOIDS  
200 mg/kg 
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
5 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
600 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
5,000 mg/kg   
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
(EDTA) 
 
25 mg/kg 
21 
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
181 
PHOSPHATES 
 
440mg/kg 
33, 88 
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
120 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 313>>>
SULFITES 
 
200 mg/kg 
44 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg  
31[Caramel II -  
150 b 
GMP 
- 
Gold (colour) 
175 
GMP 
- 
Silver (colour) 
174 
GMP 
- 
Glycerol esters Of 
wood Resin 
445(iii
) 
GMP 
- 
Alpha-Tocopherol 307 
GMP 
- 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
GMP 
- 
CHLOROPHYL
LS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYL
LINS, COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
 
100 mg/kg 
-] 
 
 
82[Tatrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
1. These 
colours 
can 
be 
used 
individu
ally 
as 
per 
permissi
ble 
 
 
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
Brilliant 
Blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
Sunset 
Yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 


<<<PAGE 314>>>
 
 
Allura Red 
129 
     100 
mg/kg 
limits or 
in 
combina
tion 
which 
may be 
restricte
d to the 
lowest 
permissi
ble limit 
amongst 
the 
combina
tion 
of 
colors 
used. 
2. These 
colors 
are 
not 
permitte
d to be 
used 
in 
country 
liquors 
as 
defined 
under 
regulatio
n 2.2 of 
the Food 
Safety 
and 
Standard
s 
(Alcoholi
c 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 315>>>
Beverage
s) 
Regulati
ons, 
2018.] 
14.2.7 
Aromatized 
alcoholic 
beverages  
Acesulfame 
potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Aspartame 
951 
600 mg/kg 
191 
Aspartame-
acesulfame salt 
962 
350 mg/kg 
113 
BENZOATES 
 
1,000mg/kg 
13 
CAROTENOIDS 160e 
200 mg/kg 
 


<<<PAGE 316>>>
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
5 mg/kg 
  
Caramel III  - 
ammonia caramel 
150c 
50, 
000 
mg/kg 
  
Caramel 
IV 
–
sulfite 
ammonia 
caramel 
150d 
50,000 
mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, 
vegetable 
160a(i
i) 
600 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric 
and 
fatty 
acid 
esters of glycerol 
472e 
10, 
000 
mg/kg 
  
ETHYLENE 
DIAMINE 
TETRA 
ACETATES 
 
25 mg/kg 
21 
Grape skin extract 163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
181 
HYDROXYBEN
ZOATES, 
PARA- 
 
1,000 mg/kg 224, 27 
Neotame 
961 
33 mg/kg 
  
POLYSORBAT
ES 
 
120 mg/kg 
 
Polydimethylsilox
ane 
900a 
10 mg/kg 
  
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
SACCHARINS  
 
80 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES  
 
500 mg/kg 
224, 42 
SULFITES 
 
250 mg/kg 
44 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactos
ucrose) 
955 
700 mg/kg 
 
Sucroglycerides 
474 
5,000 mg/kg  
31[Phosphoric acid 338 
1,000 mg/kg -] 
 
 
82[Tatrazine 
102 
100 mg/kg 
1. These 


<<<PAGE 317>>>
 
 
Carmoisine 
122 
100 mg/kg 
colours 
can 
be 
used 
individu
ally 
as 
per 
permissi
ble 
limits or 
in 
combina
tion 
which 
may be 
restricte
d to the 
lowest 
permissi
ble limit 
amongst 
the 
combina
tion 
of 
colors 
used. 
2. These 
colors 
are 
not 
permitte
d to be 
used 
in 
country 
liquors 
as 
defined 
under 
regulatio
 
 
Brilliant 
Blue 
FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
Sunset 
Yellow 
FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
 
 
Allura Red 
129 
     100 
mg/kg 


<<<PAGE 318>>>
 
Table 15 
Ready-to–eat savouries 
Food 
Categor
y system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
NOT
E 
15.0 
Ready-
to-eat 
savourie
s 
Acesulfame potassium 
950 
350 mg/kg 
188 
Aspartame 
951 
500 mg/kg 
191 
Neotame 
961 
32 mg/kg 
  
Beeswax 
901 
GMP 
3 
Butylated hydroxytoluene 
(BHT) 
321 
200mg/kg 
15, 
130 
Candelilla wax 
902 
GMP 
3 
Carnauba wax 
903 
GMP 
3 
Caramel III  - ammonia 
caramel 
150c 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
n 2.2 of 
the Food 
Safety 
and 
Standard
s 
(Alcoholi
c 
Beverage
s) 
Regulati
ons, 
2018.] 
 
 
 
 
 
82[Insertion of provision] 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 319>>>
Table 15 
Ready-to–eat savouries 
Food 
Categor
y system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
NOT
E 
Caramel 
IV 
–sulfite 
ammonia caramel 
150d 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
PHOSPHATES 
 
2,200 mg/kg 
33 
SACCHARINS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
Steviol glycosides 
960 
170 mg/kg 
26 
Sucralose 
(Trichlorogalactosucrose) 
955 
1,000 mg/kg 
 
Shellac, bleached 
904 
GMP 
3 
THIODIPROPIONATE
S 
 
200 mg/kg 
46 
TBHQ 
319 
200mg/kg 
15, 
130 
15.1 
Snacks 
and 
savourie
s 
–
potato, 
cereal, 
flour or 
starch 
based 
(from 
roots 
and 
tubers, 
pulses 
and 
legumes) 
ASCORBYL ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
10 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant blue FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Butylated hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200mg/kg 
15, 
130 
CAROTENOIDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYLLINS, 
COPPER COMPLEXES 
 
 
350 mg/kg 
  
  
  
Canthaxanthin 
161g 
45 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
100 mg/kg 
  
Cyclodextrin, beta- 
459 
500 mg/kg 
  
Diacetyltartaric and fatty 
acid esters of glycerol 
472e 
20,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape skin extract 
163(ii) 500 mg/kg 
181 


<<<PAGE 320>>>
Table 15 
Ready-to–eat savouries 
Food 
Categor
y system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
NOT
E 
HYDROXYBENZOATE
S, PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
IRON OXIDES 
 
500 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
300 mg/kg 
  
BENZOATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
13 
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
SULFITES 
 
50 mg/kg 
44 
TOCOPHEROLS 
  
GMP 
 
Sunset yellow FCF 
110 
100 mg/kg 
  
70[Paprika oleoresin 
160c(i) GMP 
 
Curcumin 
100(i) 
GMP 
 
Turmeric 
100(ii) GMP] 
 
15.2 
Processe
d 
nuts 
includin
g coated 
nuts and 
nut 
mixtures  
ASCORBYL ESTERS 
 
200 mg/kg 
10 
Allura red AC 
129 
100 mg/kg 
  
Brilliant blue FCF 
133 
100 mg/kg 
  
Butylated hydroxyanisole 
(BHA) 
320 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
CAROTENOIDS 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
CHLOROPHYLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYLLINS, 
COPPER COMPLEXES 
 
100 mg/kg 
  
beta-Carotenes, vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
GMP 
3 


<<<PAGE 321>>>
Table 15 
Ready-to–eat savouries 
Food 
Categor
y system 
Food 
Category 
Name 
Food Additive  
INS 
No 
 
Recommende
d Maximum 
Level 
NOT
E 
Diacetyltartaric and fatty 
acid esters of glycerol 
472e 
10,000 mg/kg 
  
Grape skin extract 
163(ii) 300 mg/kg 
 181 
HYDROXYBENZOATE
S, PARA- 
 
300 mg/kg 
27 
IRON OXIDES 
 
400 mg/kg 
  
Indigotine 
(Indigo 
carmine) 
132 
100 mg/kg 
  
Neotame 
961 
32 mg/kg 
  
Ponceau 4R 
124 
100 mg/kg 
  
Propyl gallate 
310 
200 mg/kg 
15, 
130 
RIBOFLAVINS 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
  
SORBATES 
 
1,000 mg/kg 
42 
15.3 
Snacks – 
fish 
based 
CHLOROPHYLLS 
AND 
CHLOROPHYLLINS, 
COPPER COMPLEXES 
 
 
350 mg/kg 
 
beta-Carotenes, vegetable 
160a(ii
) 
100 mg/kg 
  
Grape skin extract 
163(ii) 400 mg/kg 
  
 
Explanation I (for 11.6 Table top sweeteners): Maximum limit of artificial 
sweetener in the product shall be as in reconstituted beverage or food or in final 
beverage or food for consumption, as the case may be. The product label shall give 
clear instruction for reconstitution of products for making final beverage or food for 
consumption as the case may be. 


<<<PAGE 322>>>
Provided where the artificial sweetener(s) is/are used in carbonated water/ sweetened 
aerated water/ fruit beverage/ carbonated fruit beverage/ fruit nectar, the requirement 
of minimum total soluble solids shall not apply. 
Provided further table top sweetener may contain the following carrier or filler 
articles with label declaration as provided in Regulation 2.4.5 (24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 
29) of Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and Labelling) Regulations, 2011. 
Namely,- 
(i) Dextrose 
(ii) Lactose 
(iii) Maltodextrin 
(iv) Mannitol 
(v) Sucrose 
(vi) Isomalt 
(vii) Citric acid 
(viii) Calcium silicate 
(ix) Carboxy methyl cellulose 
(x) Cream of tartar, IP 
(xi) Cross carmellose sodium 
(xii) Colloidal silicone dioxide 
(xiii) Glycine 
(xiv) L-leucine 
(xv) Magnesium stearate, IP 
(xvi) Purified talc 
(xvii) Poly vinyl pyrrolidone 
(xviii) Providone 
(xix) Sodium hydrogen carbonate 


<<<PAGE 323>>>
(xx) Starch 
(xxi) Tartaric acid 
(xxii) Erythritol 
Explanation II (for preservatives) 
The use of more than one preservative has been allowed in the alternative, those 
preservatives may be used in combination with one or more alternatives, provided 
the quantity of each preservative so used does not exceed such number of parts out of 
those specified for that preservative of the aforesaid tables as may be worked out on 
the basis of the proportion in which such preservatives are combined 
Annexure-1 
All capital and bold additives in the Table 1 to 15 refers to the group of 
additives as listed below 
Group Name 
Additive Name 
INS 
No. 
SULFITES 
Sulfur dioxide 
220 
Sodium sulfite 
221 
Sodium hydrogen sulfite 
222 
Sodium disulfite 
223 
Potassium metabisulfite 
224 
Potassium sulfite 
225 
Calcium hydrogen sulfite 
227 
Potassium hydrogen sulfite 
228 
Sodium thiosulfate 
539 
PHOSPHATES 
Phosphoric acid 
338 
Sodium hydrogen phosphate 
339(i) 
Disodium hydrogen phosphate 
339(ii) 
Trisodium orthophosphate 
339(iii) 
Potassium dihydrogen phosphate 
340(i) 
Dipotassium hydrogen phosphate 
340(ii) 
Tripotassium ydrogen phosphate 
340(iii) 
Monocalcium orthophosphate 
341(i) 
Calcium hydrogen phosphate 
341(ii) 
Tricalcium phosphate 
341(iii) 


<<<PAGE 324>>>
Group Name 
Additive Name 
INS 
No. 
Ammonium dihydrogen phosphate 
342(i) 
Diammonium Hydrogen phosphate 
342(ii) 
Magnesium phosphate 
343(i) 
Dimagnesium hydrogen phosphate 
343(ii) 
Trimagnesium phosphate 
343(iii) 
Disodium diphosphate 
450(i) 
Trisodium diphosphate 
450(ii) 
Tetrasodium diphosphate 
450(iii) 
Tetrapotassium diphosphate 
450(v) 
Dicalcium diphosphate 
450(vi) 
Calcium dihydrogen diphosphate 
450(vii) 
Pentasodium triphosphate 
451(i) 
Pentapotassium triphosphate 
451(ii) 
Sodium polyphosphate 
452(i) 
Potassium polyphosphate 
452(ii) 
Sodium calcium polyphosphate 
452(iii) 
Calcium polyphosphate 
452(iv) 
Ammonium polyphosphate 
452(v) 
Magnesium dihydrogen diphosphate 
450(ix) 
RIBOFLAVINS 
Riboflavin, synthetic 
101(i) 
Riboflavin 5’-phosphate sodium 
101(ii) 
Riboflavin (Bacillus subtilis) 
101(iii) 
ASCORBYL ESTERS 
Ascorbyl palmitate 
304 
Ascorbyl stearate 
305 
BENZOATES 
Benzoic acid 
210 
Sodium benzoate 
211 
Potassium benzoate 
212 
Calcium benzoate 
213 
CAROTENOIDS 
beta-Carotenes (synthetic) 
160a(i) 
beta-Carotenes (Blakeslea trispora) 
160a(iii
) 
beta-apo-8’-Carotenal 
160e 
beta-apo-8’-Carotenoic acid, ethyl ester 
160f 
CHLOROPHYLLS 
AND 
Chlorophylls, copper complexes 
141(i) 
Chlorophyllin copper complexes, sodium 141(ii) 


<<<PAGE 325>>>
Group Name 
Additive Name 
INS 
No. 
CHLOROPHYLLINS, 
COPPER 
COMPLEXES 
and potassium salts 
HYDROXYBENZOAT
ES, PARA- 
Ethyl para-hydroxybenzoate 
214 
Methyl para-hydroxybenzoate 
218 
NITRITES 
Potassium nitrite 
249 
Sodium nitrite 
250 
QUILLAIA 
EXTRACTS 
Quillaia extract type 2 
999(ii) 
Quillaia extract type I 
999(i) 
SODIUM 
ALUMINIUM 
PHOSPHATES 
Sodium aluminium phosphate, acidic 
541(i) 
Sodium aluminium phosphate, basic 
541(ii) 
STEAROYL 
LACTYLATES 
Calcium stearoyl lactylate 
482(i) 
Sodium stearoyl lactylate 
481(i) 
THIODIPROPIONAT
ES 
Dilauryl thiodipropionate 
389 
Thiodipropionic acid 
388 
TOCOPHEROLS 
dl-alpha-Tocopherol 
3 07c 
d-alpha-Tocopherol 
307a 
Tocopherol concentrate, mixed 
307b 
SACCHARINS 
Saccharin 
954(i) 
Calcium saccharin 
954(ii) 
Potassium saccharin 
954(iii) 
Sodium saccharin 
954(iv) 
SORBATES 
Sorbic acid 
200 
Sodium sorbate 
201 
Potassium sorbate 
202 
Calcium sorbate 
203 
POLYSORBATES 
Polyoxyethylene 
(20) 
sorbitan 
monolaurate 
432 
Polyoxyethylene 
(20) 
sorbitan 
monooleate 
433 
Polyoxyethylene 
(20) 
sorbitan 
monopalmitate 
434 
Polyoxyethylene 
(20) 
sorbitan 
monostearate 
435 


<<<PAGE 326>>>
Group Name 
Additive Name 
INS 
No. 
Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan tristearate 
436 
POLYOXYETHYLEN
E STEARATES 
Polyoxyethylene (40) stearate 
431 
Polyoxyethylene (8) stearate 
430 
IRON OXIDES 
Iron oxide, black 
172(i) 
Iron oxide, red 
172(ii) 
Iron oxide, yellow 
172(iii) 
FERROCYANIDES 
Calcium ferrocyanide 
538 
Potassium ferrocyanide 
536 
Sodium ferrocyanide 
535 
TARTRATES 
Potassium sodium L(+)-tartrate 
337 
 
Sodium L(+)-tartrate 
335(ii) 
L(+)-Tartaric acid 
334 
ETHYLENE DIAMINE 
TETRA ACETATES 
Calcium 
disodium 
ethylenediaminetetraacetate  
385 
Disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate  
386 
52[ 
SORBITAN 
ESTERS OF FATTY 
ACIDS 
 
 
Sorbitan monolaurate 
493 
Sorbitan monooleate 
494 
Sorbitan monopalmitate 
495 
Sorbitan monostearate 
491 
Sorbitan tristearate 
492] 
 
Note No. Notes to the Food Additives mentioned in the Table 1 to 15. 
1 
As adipic acid. 
2 
On the dry ingredient, dry weight, dry mix or concentrate basis. 
3 
For use in surface treatment only. 
4 
For use in decoration, stamping, marking or branding the product 
only. 
5 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for jams, jellies and 
marmalades  
6 
As aluminium. 
7 
For use in coffee substitutes only. 
8 
As bixin. 
9 
Except for use in ready-to-drink coffee products at 10,000 mg/kg. 


<<<PAGE 327>>>
10 
As ascorbyl stearate. 
11 
On the flour basis. 
12 
As a result of carryover from flavouring substances. 
13 
As benzoic acid. 
14 
For use in hydrolysed protein liquid formula only. 
15 
On the fat or oil basis. 
16 
For use in glaze, coatings or decorations for fruit, vegetables, meat or 
fish only. 
18 
 As added level; residue not detected in ready-to-eat food. 
19 
For use in cocoa fat only. 
20 
Singly or in combination with other stabilizers, thickeners and/or 
gums. 
21 
As anhydrous calcium disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate. 
22 
For use in smoked fish products only. 
23 
As iron. 
24 
As anhydrous sodium ferrocyanide. 
25 
For use at GMP in full fat soy flour only. 
26 
As steviol equivalents. 
27 
As para-hydroxybenzoic acid. 
28 
Except for use in wheat flour conforming to the standard for wheat 
flour at 2,000 mg/kg. 
29 
For non-standardized food only. 
30 
As residual NO3 ion. 
31 
On the mash used basis. 
32 
As residual NO2 ion. 
33 
As phosphorus. 
34 
On the anhydrous basis. 
35 
For use in cloudy juices only. 
36 
On the residual level basis. 
37 
For non-standardized food and food conforming to the standard for 
quick frozen blocks of fish fillets, minced fish flesh and mixtures of 
fillets and minced fish flesh. 
38 
On the creaming mixture basis. 
39 
For use in products containing butter or other fats and oils only. 
40 
Pentasodium triphosphate (INS 451(i)) only, to enhance the 
effectiveness of benzoates and sorbates. 
41 
For use in breading or batter coatings only. 


<<<PAGE 328>>>
42 
As sorbic acid. 
43 
As tin. 
44 
As residual SO2. 
45 
As tartaric acid. 
46 
As thiodipropionic acid. 
47 
On the dry egg yolk weight basis. 
48 
For use in olives only. 
49 
For use on citrus fruits only. 
50 
For use in fish roe only. 
51 
For use in herbs only. 
52 
Excluding chocolate milk. 
53 
For use in coatings only. 
54 
For use in cocktail cherries and candied cherries only. 
55 
Within the limits for sodium, calcium, and potassium specified in the 
standard for infant formulaand formula for special dietary purposes 
intended for   infants: singly or in combination with other sodium, 
calcium, and/or potassium salts.  
56 
Excluding products where starch is present. 
57 
GMP is 1 part benzoyl peroxide and not more than 6 parts of the 
subject additive by weight. 
58 
As calcium. 
59 
For use as a packaging gas only. 
60 
Except for use as a carbonating agent: the CO2 in the finished wine 
shall not exceed 39.2 mg/kg. 
61 
For use in minced fish only. 
62 
As copper. 
63 
For non-standardized food and breaded or batter coatings in food 
conforming to the standard for quick frozen fish sticks (fish fingers), 
fish portions and fish fillets – breaded or in batter 
64 
For use in dry beans only. 
65 
As a result of carryover from nutrient preparations. 
66 
As formaldehyde. 
67 
Except for use in liquid egg whites at 8,800 mg/kg as phosphorus, 
and in liquid whole eggs at 14,700 mg/kg as phosphorus. 
68 
For use in products with no added sugar only. 
69 
For use as a carbonating agent only. 
70 
As the acid. 


<<<PAGE 329>>>
71 
Calcium, potassium and sodium salts only. 
72 
On the ready-to-eat basis. 
73 
Excluding whole fish. 
74 
Excluding liquid whey and whey products used as ingredients in 
infant formula. 
75 
For use in milk powder for vending machines only. 
76 
For use in potatoes only. 
77 
For special nutritional uses only. 
78 
Except for use in pickling and balsamic vinegars at 50,000 mg/kg. 
79 
For use on nuts only. 
80 
Equivalent to 2 mg/dm2 surface application to a maximum depth of 5 
mm. 
81 
Equivalent to 1 mg/dm2 surface application to a maximum depth of 5 
mm. 
82 
Except for use in shrimp (Crangon crangon and Crangon vulgaris) at 
6,000 mg/kg. 
83 
L(+)-form only. 
84 
For use in products for infants over 1 year of age only. 
85 
Use level in sausage casings; residue in sausage prepared with such 
casings should not exceed 100 mg/kg. 
86 
For use in whipped dessert toppings other than cream only. 
87 
On the treatment level basis. 
88 
As a result of carryover from the ingredient. 
89 
For use in sandwich spreads only. 
90 
For use in milk-sucrose mixtures used in the finished product only. 
91 
Singly or in combination: benzoates and sorbates. 
92 
Excluding tomato-based sauces. 
93 
Excluding natural wine produced from Vitis vinifera grapes. 
94 
For use in loganiza (fresh, uncured sausage) only. 
95 
For use in surimi and fish roe products only. 
96 
On the dried weight basis of the high intensity sweetener. 
97 
On the final cocoa and chocolate product basis. 
98 
For use in dust control only. 
99 
For use in fish fillets and minced fish only. 
100 
For use in crystalline products and sugar toppings only. 
101 
When used in combination with other emulsifiers, total combined 
use level not to exceed 15,000 mg/kg as specified in the standard for 


<<<PAGE 330>>>
chocolate and chocolate products. 
102 
For use in fat emulsions for baking purposes only. 
103 
Except for use in special white wines at 400 mg/kg. 
104 
Except for use in bread and yeast-leavened bakery products: 
maximum 5,000 mg/kg residue. 
105 
Except for use in dried gourd strips at 5,000 mg/kg. 
106 
Except for use in Dijon mustard at 500 mg/kg. 
107 
Except for use of sodium ferrocyanide (INS 535) and potassium 
ferrocyanide (INS 536) in foodgrade dendridic salt at 29 mg/kg as 
anhydrous sodium ferrocyanide. 
108 
For use on coffee beans only. 
109 
Use level reported as 25 lbs/1,000 gal x (0.45 kg/lb) x (1 gal/3.75 L) 
x (1 L/kg) x (10E6 mg/kg) = 3,000 mg/kg 
110 
For use in frozen French fried potatoes only. 
111 
Except for use in dried glucose syrup used in the manufacture of 
sugar confectionery at 150 mg/kg and glucose syrup used in the 
manufacture of sugar confectionery at 400 mg/kg. 
112 
For use in grated cheese only. 
113 
As acesulfame potassium equivalents (the reported maximum level 
can be converted to an aspartame-acesulfame salt basis by dividing 
by 0.44). Combined use of aspartame-acesulfame salt with individual 
acesulfame potassium or aspartame should not exceed the individual 
maximum levels for acesulfame potassium or aspartame (the 
reported maximum level can be converted to aspartame equivalents 
by dividing by 0.68). 
114 
Excluding cocoa powder. 
115 
For use in pineapple juice only. 
116 
For use in doughs only. 
117 
Except for use in fresh, uncured sausage at 1,000 mg/kg. 
118 
Except for use in fresh, cured sausage at 1,000 mg/kg. 
119 
As aspartame equivalents (the reported maximum level can be 
converted to an aspartame acesulfame salt basis by dividing by 0.64). 
Combined use of aspartame-acesulfame salt with individual 
aspartame or acesulfame potassium should not exceed the individual 
maximum levels for aspartame or acesulfame potassium (the 
reported maximum level can be converted to acesulfame potassium 
equivalents by multiplying by 0.68). 


<<<PAGE 331>>>
120 
Except for use in caviar at 2,500 mg/kg. 
121 
Except for use in fermented fish products at 1,000 mg/kg. 
123 
Except for use in beverages with pH greater than 3.5 at 1,000 mg/kg. 
124 
For use in products containing less than 7% ethanol only. 
125 
For use in a mixture with vegetable oil only, as a release agent for 
baking pans. 
126 
For use in releasing dough in dividing or baking only. 
127 
On the served to the consumer basis. 
128 
Tartaric acid (INS 334) only. 
129 
For use as an acidity regulator in grape juice only. 
130 
Singly or in combination: butylated hydroxyanisole (INS 320), 
butylated hydroxytoluene (INS 321), tertiary butylated hydroquinone 
(INS 319), and propyl gallate (INS 310). 
131 
For use as a flavour carrier only. 
132 
Except for use in semi-frozen beverages at 130 mg/kg on a dried 
basis. 
133 
Any combination of butylated hydroxyanisole (INS 320), butylated 
hydroxytoluene (INS 321), and propyl gallate (INS 310) at 200 
mg/kg,  provided that single use limits are not exceeded. 
134 
Except for use in cereal-based puddings at 500 mg/kg. 
135 
Except for use in dried apricots at 2,000 mg/kg, bleached raisins at 
1,500 mg/kg, desiccated coconut at 200 mg/kg and coconut from 
which oil has been partially extracted at 50 mg/kg. 
136 
For use to prevent browning of certain light coloured vegetables 
only. 
137 
Except for use in frozen avocado at 300 mg/kg. 
138 
For use in energy-reduced products only. 
139 
For use in mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms only. 
140 
Except for use in canned abalone (univalve hydrolyse) at 1,000 
mg/kg. 
141 
For use in white chocolate only. 
142 
Excluding coffee and tea. 
143 
For use in fruit juice-based drinks and dry ginger ale only. 
144 
For use in sweet and sour products only. 
145 
For use in energy reduced or no added sugar products only. 
146 
Beta-carotene (synthetic) (INS 160a(i)) only. 
147 
Excluding whey powders for infant food. 


<<<PAGE 332>>>
148 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 10,000 
mg/kg. 
149 
Except for use in fish roe at 100 mg/kg. 
150 
For use in soy-based formula only. 
151 
Except for use in hydrolysed protein and/or amino acid-based 
formula at 1,000 mg/kg. 
152 
For use in frying only. 
153 
For use in instant noodles only. 
154 
For use in coconut milk only. 
155 
For use in frozen, sliced apples only. 
156 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 2,500 
mg/kg. 
157 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 2,000 
mg/kg. 
158 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 1,000 
mg/kg. 
159 
For use in pancake syrup and maple syrup only. 
160 
For use in ready-to-drink products and pre-mixes for ready-to-drink 
products only. 
162 
For use in dehydrated products and salami-type products only. 
163 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 3,000 
mg/kg. 
164 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 30,000 
mg/kg. 
165 
For use in products for special nutritional use only. 
166 
For use in milk-based sandwich spreads only. 
167 
For use in dehydrated products only. 
168 
Quillaia extract type 1 (INS 999(i)) only. 
169 
For use in fat-based sandwich spreads only. 
170 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for fermented milks. 
171 
Excluding anhydrous milkfat. 
172 
Except for use in fruit sauces, fruit toppings, coconut cream, coconut 
milk and “fruit bars” at 50 mg/kg. 
173 
Excluding instant noodles containing vegetables and eggs. 
174 
Singly or in combination: sodium aluminosilicate (INS 554), calcium 
aluminium silicate (INS 556),and aluminium silicate (INS 559). 
175 
Except for use in jelly-type fruit-based desserts at 200 mg/kg. 


<<<PAGE 333>>>
176 
For use in canned liquid coffee only. 
177 
For non-standardized food and minced fish flesh and breaded or 
batter coatings conforming to the standard for quick frozen fish 
sticks (fish fingers), fish portions and fish fillets –breaded or in batter 
. 
178 
As carminic acid. 
179 
For use in restoring the natural colour lost in processing only. 
180 
Singly or in combination: butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA, INS 320) 
and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, INS 321). 
181 
As anthocyanin. 
182 
Excluding coconut milk. 
183 
Products conforming to the standard for chocolate and chocolate 
products may only use colours for surface decoration. 
184 
For use in nutrient coated rice grain premixes only. 
185 
As norbixin. 
186 
For use in flours with additives only. 
187 
Ascorbyl palmitate (INS 304) only. 
188 
If used in combination with aspartame-acesulfame salt (INS 962), 
the combined maximum use level, expressed as acesulfame 
potassium, should not exceed this level. 
189 
Excluding rolled oats. 
190 
Except for use in fermented milk drinks at 500 mg/kg. 
191 
If used in combination with aspartame-acesulfame salt (INS 962), 
the combined maximum use level, expressed as aspartame, should 
not exceed this level. 
192 
For use in liquid products only. 
193 
For use in crustacean and fish pastes only. 
194 
For use in instant noodles conforming to the standard for instant 
noodles only. 
195 
Singly or in combination: butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA, INS 320), 
butylated 
hydroxytoluene 
(BHT, 
INS 
321) 
and 
tertiary 
butylhydroquinone (TBHQ, INS 319). 
196 
Singly or in combination: butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA, INS 320), 
butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, INS 321) and ropyl gallate (INS 
310). 
197 
Singly or in combination: butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, INS 321) 
and propyl gallate (INS 310). 


<<<PAGE 334>>>
198 
For use in solid products (e.g., energy, meal replacement or fortified 
bars) only. 
199 
Except for use in microsweets and breath freshening mints at 6,000 
mg/kg as steviol equivalents. 
200 
Except for use in ham of pork loin (cured and non-heat-treated) at 
120 mg/kg as steviol equivalents 
201 
For use in flavoured products only. 
202 
For use in brine used in the production of sausage only. 
203 
For use in chewable supplements only. 
204 
Except for use in longan and lichee at 50 mg/kg. 
205 
Except for use to prevent browning of certain light colored 
vegetables at 50 mg/kg. 
206 
Except for use as a bleaching agent in products conforming to the 
standard for aqueous coconut products at 30 mg/kg. 
207 
Except for use in soybean sauce intended for further processing at 
50,000 mg/kg. 
208 
For use in dried and dehydrated products only. 
209 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for blend of skimmed 
milk and vegetable fat in powdered form. 
210 
For non-standardized food and fish filets and minced fish flesh 
conforming to the standard for quick frozen fish sticks (fish fingers), 
fish portions and fish fillets – breaded or in batter.  
211 
For use in noodles only. 
212 
Except for use in products conforming to the standard for bouillon 
and consommés at 3,000 mg/kg. 
213 
For use in liquid products containing high intensity sweeteners only. 
214 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for dairy fat spreads.  
215 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for fat spreads and 
blended spreads.  
216 
For use in maize-based products only. 
217 
Except for use in toppings at 300 mg/kg. 
218 
Only hydrolyse can be used as preservatives and antioxidants in the 
products covered by the standard for desiccated coconut. 
219 
Except for use in non-alcoholic aniseed-based, coconut-based, and 
almond-based drinks at 5,000 mg/kg. 
220 
For use in flavoured products heat treated after fermentation only. 
221 
For use in potato dough and pre-fried potato slices only. 


<<<PAGE 335>>>
222 
For use in collagen-based casings with a water activity greater than 
0.6 only. 
223 
Except for use in products containing added fruits, vegetables, or 
meats at 3,000 mg/kg. 
224 
Excluding aromatized beer. 
225 
Except for use in self-raising flour at 12,000 mg/kg. 
226 
Except for use as a meat tenderizer at 35,000 mg/kg. 
227 
For use in sterilized and UHT treated milks only. 
228 
Except for use to stabilize higher protein liquid whey used for further 
processing into whey protein concentrates at 1,320 mg/kg. 
229 
For use as a flour treatment agent, raising agent or leavening agent 
only. 
230 
For use as an acidity regulator only. 
231 
For use in flavoured fermented milks and flavoured fermented milks 
heat treated after fermentation only. 
232 
For use in vegetable fats conforming to the standard for edible fats 
and oils not covered by individual standards only. 
233 
As nisin. 
234 
For use as a stabilizer or thickener only. 
235 
For use in reconstituted and recombined products only. 
236 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for cream and 
prepared 
creams 
(reconstituted 
cream, 
recombined 
cream, 
prepackaged liquid cream).  
237 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for processed cereal-
based foods for infants and young children  
238 
Except for use in products corresponding to the standard for 
processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children) at 
GMP. 
239 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for canned baby 
foods. 
240 
The use level is within the limit for sodium listed in the standard for 
canned baby foods  
241 
For use in surimi products only. 
242 
For use as an antioxidant only. 
243 
For use in products conforming to the standard for processed cereal-
based foods for infants and young children only, as a raising agent. 
244 
For use in biscuit dough only. 


<<<PAGE 336>>>
245 
For use in pickled vegetables only. 
246 
Singly or in combination: aluminium ammonium hydrolys (INS 523) 
and sodium aluminium phosphates (acidic and basic; (INS 
541(i),(ii)). 
247 
For use in kuzukiri and harusame (starch based products) only. 
248 
For use as a raising agent only. 
249 
For use as a raising agent in mixes for steamed breads and buns only. 
250 
For use in boiled mollusks and tsukudani only. 
251 
For use in processed hydrolys cheese only. 
252 
For use in self-rising flour and self-rising corn meal only. 
253 
For use in dry mix hot chocolate only. 
254 
For use in salt applied to dry salted cheeses during manufacturing 
only. 
255 
Except for use in seasonings applied to foods in food category 15.1 
at 1,700 mg/kg. 
256 
For use in noodles, gluten-free pasta and pasta intended for 
hypoproteic diets only. 
257 
For use in shrimps and prawns only. 
258 
Excluding maple syrup. 
259 
Singly or in combination: sodium aluminosilicate (INS 554) and 
calcium aluminium silicate (INS 556). 
260 
For use in powdered beverage whiteners only. 
261 
For use in heat-treated buttermilk only. 
262 
For use in edible fungi and fungus products only. 
263 
Except for use in pickled fungi at 20,000 mg/kg. 
264 
Except for use in sterilized fungi at 5,000 mg/kg: citric acid (INS 
330) and lactic acid (INS 270),singly or in combination. 
265 
For use in quick frozen French fried potatoes only, as a sequestrant. 
266 
Excluding salted atlantic herring and sprat. 
267 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for salted fish and 
dried salted fish of the gadidae family of fishes , the standard for 
dried shark fins, the standard for crackers from marine and 
freshwater fish, crustaceans and molluscan shellfish , and the 
standard for boiled dried salted anchovies. 
268 
Singly or in combination: ins 471, 472a, 472b and 472c in products 
conforming to the standard forprocessed cereal-based foods for 
infants and young children. 


<<<PAGE 337>>>
269 
Singly or in combination with other modified starches used as 
thickeners in products conforming to the standard for processed 
cereal-based foods for infants and young children. 
270 
For use at 60,000 mg/kg, singly or in combination with other starch 
thickeners in products conforming to the standard for canned baby 
foods. 
271 
For use in products conforming to the standard for canned baby 
foods. 
272 
Singly or in combination: ins 410, 412, 414, 415 and 440 at 20,000 
mg/kg in gluten-free cereal based foods, and 10,000 mg/kg in other 
products conforming to the standard for processed cereal- based 
foods for infants and young children . 
273 
Singly or in combination: ins 410, 412, 414, 415 and 440 except for 
use at 20,000 mg/kg in glutenfree cereal based foods in products 
conforming to the standard for processed cereal-based foods  for 
infants and young children . 
274 
For use at 15,000 mg/kg in products conforming to the standard for 
processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children. 
275 
For use at 1,500 mg/kg in products conforming to the standard for 
canned baby foods. 
276 
Singly or in combination with other modified starches used as 
thickeners in products conforming to the standard for canned baby 
foods. 
277 
Excluding virgin and cold pressed oils and products conforming to 
the standard for olive oils and olive pomace oils. 
278 
For use in whipped cream and cream packed under pressure only. 
279 
Except for products conforming to the standard for edible fungi and 
fungus products. 
280 
For use in pickled radish only. 
281 
For use in fresh minced meat which contains other ingredients apart 
from comminuted meat only. 
282 
Only non-amidated pectins may be used in the standard for canned 
baby foods  
283 
For use in canned fruit-based baby foods conforming to the standard 
for canned baby foods only. 
284 
Singly or in combination: INS 1412, 1413, 1414 and 1440 in 
products conforming to the standard for infant formula and formulas 


<<<PAGE 338>>>
for special medical purposes intended for infants. 
285 
Singly or in combination: INS 1412, 1413, 1414 and 1422 in 
products conforming to the standardfor follow-up formula. 
286 
For use in products conforming to the standard for luncheon meat 
andthe standard for cooked cured chopped meat. 
288 
For use in products conforming to the standard for cooked cured ham 
and cooked cured pork shoulder. 
289 
For use of sodium dihydrogen phosphate (INS 339(i)), disodium 
hydrogen phosphate (INS 339(ii)),trisodium phosphate (INS 
339(iii)), potassium dihydrogen phosphate (INS 340(i)), dipotassium 
hydrogen phosphate (INS 340(ii)), tripotassium phosphate (INS 
340(iii)), calcium dihydrogen phosphate (INS 341(i)), calcium 
hydrogen phosphate (INS 341(ii)), tricalcium phosphate (INS 
341(iii), disodium diphosphate (INS 450(i)), trisodium diphosphate 
(INS 450(ii)), tetrasodium diphosphate (INS 450(iii)), tetrapotassium 
diphosphate (INS 450(v)), calcium dihydrogen diphosphate (INS 
450(vii)), pentasodium triphosphate (INS 451(i)), pentapotassium 
triphosphate (INS 451(ii)), sodium polyphosphate (INS 452(i)), 
potassium 
polyphosphate 
(INS 
452(ii)), 
sodium 
calcium 
polyphosphate (INS 452(iii)), calcium polyphosphate (INS 452(iv)), 
ammonium polyphosphate (INS 452(v)), and bone phosphate (INS 
542) as humectants in products conforming to the standard for 
cooked cured ham and cooked cured pork shoulder . The total 
amount of phosphates (naturally present and added) shall not exceed 
3,520 mg/kg as phosphorus. 
290 
For use in products conforming to the standard for luncheon meat 
and cooked cured chopped meat at 15 mg/kg to replace loss of colour 
in product with binders only. 
291 
Except for use of beta-apo-8’-carotenal (INS 160e) and beta-apo-8’-
carotenoic acid, methyl or ethyl ester (INS 160f) at 35 mg/kg. 
292 
Except for use in hydrolysed protein and/or amino acid-based 
formula at 25,000 mg/kg. 
293 
On the saponin basis. 
294 
Except for use in liquid products at 600 mg/kg as steviol equivalents. 
295 
For use in products conforming to the standard for canned baby 
foods only, as an acidity regulator. 


<<<PAGE 339>>>
296 
Except for use in perilla in brine at 780 mg/kg. 
297 
The level in the ready-to-eat food shall not exceed 200 mg/kg on the 
anhydrous basis. 
298 
For use in provolone cheese only. 
299 
For use at 400 mg/kg as phosphorous singly or in combination in 
breaded or batter coating inaccordance with standard for quick 
frozen fish sticks (fish fingers), fish portions and fish fillets– breaded 
or in batter. 
300 
For use in salted squid only. 
301 
Interim maximum level. 
302 
For use of sodium dihydrogen phosphate (INS 339(i)), disodium 
hydrogen phosphate (INS 339(ii),trisodium phosphate (INS 339(iii)), 
potassium dihydrogen phosphate (INS 340(i)), dipotassium hydrogen 
phosphate (INS 340(ii)), tripotassium phosphate (INS 340(iii)), 
calcium dihydrogen phosphate (341(i)), calcium hydrogen phosphate 
(INS 341(ii)), tricalcium phosphate (INS 341(iii)), disodium 
diphosphate (INS 450(i)), trisodium diphosphate (INS 450(ii)), 
tetrasodium diphosphate(INS 450(iii)), tetrapotassium diphosphate 
(INS 450(v)), calcium dihydrogen diphosphate (INS 450(vii)), 
pentasodium triphosphate (INS 451(i)), pentapotassium triphosphate 
(INS 451(ii)), sodium polyphosphate (INS 452(i)), potassium 
polyphosphate (INS 452(ii)), sodium calcium polyphosphate (INS 
452(iii)), calcium polyphosphate (INS 452(iv)), ammonium 
polyphosphate (INS 452(v)), and bone phosphate (INS 542) as 
humectants in products conforming to the standard for luncheon 
meat and cooked cured chopped meat  at 1320 mg/kg as 
phosphorous. The total amount of phosphates (naturally present and 
added) shall not exceed 3,520 mg/kg as phosphorous. 
303 
For use as a pH stabilizer in soured cream butter only. 
321 
For use in powdered mixes only. 
327 
For use in fish products cooked in soy sauce. 
330 
Except for use in canned products. 
340 
Except for products not conforming to the Codex standard for 
bouillons and consommés (CODEX STAN 117-1981) at 100 mg/kg. 
69[408 
Only for bakery shortening] 
FS01 
Glucose oxidase from Aspergillus niger, A. oryzae, Penicillium 
chrysogenum 


<<<PAGE 340>>>
FS02 
Lipase from Aspergillus niger, A. oryzae, A. flavus, Rhizopus 
arrhizus, R. delemar, R. nigricans, R. niveus, Mucor javanicus, M. 
miehei, M. pusillus, Brevibacterium lineus, Candida lipolytica 
FS03 
Xylanase from Aspergillus niger, Sporotrichum dimorphosporum, 
Streptomyces sp., Trichoderma reesei, Humicola insolens, Bacillus 
licheniformis 
31[FS04a Lactic acids, L(-) or DL malic acid and L(+) tartaric and citric acids 
can be only be added to musts under condition that the initial acidity 
content is not raised by more than 54 meq/l (i.e. 4 gm/l expressed in 
tartaric acid)]. 
70[FS04b For use in pre-packed coconut water only.] 
XS89 
Excluding products conforming to standard for luncheon meat. 
XS96 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for cooked cured 
ham. 
XS97  
Excluding products conforming to the standard for cooked cured 
pork shoulder. 
XS98 
Excluding products conforming to the standard for cooked cured 
chopped meat. 
73[XS243 Excluding products conforming to the standard for fermented milks] 
XT99 
In case of thermally processed fruit beverages/ fruit drinks/ready-to-
serve fruit beverages, half of the recommended maxiumum level is 
permitted 
XT100 
70 mg/kg for thermally processed fruit beverages/ fruit drinks/ready-
to- serve fruit beverages 
XT101 
300 mg/kg for thermally processed fruit beverages/ fruit 
drinks/ready-to- serve fruit beverages 
XT102 
On dilution except  in cordial and barley water 
52[323 
For use as firming agent 
348 
Singly or in combination: Sucrose esters of fatty acids (INS 473), 
sucrose oligoesters, type and type II (INS 473a) and sucroglycerides 
(INS 474) 
 
 
 
 
 
Insertion of the provision 
 
Note no. 
Notes to the Food Additives mentioned in the Table 1 to 15 
81[358 
Except for use in fish oils at 6,000 mg/kg, singly or in combination] 
 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st August, 2023] 


<<<PAGE 341>>>
 
 
 
 
 
359 
Excluding dairy fat spreads with ≥ 70% milk fat content 
360 
In dairy fat spreads limited to products with < 70% fat content or 
baking purposes only. 
363 
For use at 50,000 mg/kg for emulsified oils used in the production of 
noodles or bakery products. 
366 
10,000 mg/kg in imitation chocolate with >5% water content. 
367 
For use at 10,000 mg/kg in candy containing not less than 10% oil 
368 
For use at 10,000 mg/kg in whipped decorations 
389 
Except for use at 500 mg/kg in products containing nut paste 
XS 86 
Excluding products conforming to the Standard for Cocoa Butter 
XS 87 
 Excluding products conforming to the Standard for Chocolate and 
Chocolate Products 
XS 105 
Excluding products conforming to the Standard for Cocoa Powders 
(Cocoas) and Dry Mixtures of Cocoa and Sugars 
XS141 
Excluding products conforming to the Standard for Cocoa (Cacao) 
Mass (Cocoa/chocolate liquor) and Cocoa Cake 
XS240 
Excluding products conforming to the Standard for Aqueous 
Coconut Products 
XS314R   Excluding products conforming to the Standard for Date Paste] 
GMP Table Provisions For all Food Categories 
The following additives, as indicated  may be used in all food categories 
(except those categories listed in the ‘Annex to GMP’ list) under the conditions 
of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) as outlined in the 3.1(8) 
INS No. 
Food Additive  
260 
Acetic acid, glacial 
472a 
Acetic and fatty acid esters of glycerol 
1422 
Acetylated distarch adipate 
1414 
Acetylated distarch phosphate 
1451 
Acetylated oxidized starch 
1401 
Acid-treated starch 


<<<PAGE 342>>>
406 
Agar  
400 
Alginic acid 
1402 
Alkaline treated starch 
403 
Ammonium alginate 
503(i) 
Ammonium carbonate 
510 
Ammonium chloride 
503(ii) 
Ammonium hydrogen carbonate 
527 
Ammonium hydroxide 
1100(i) 
alpha-Amylase from Aspergillus oryzae var. 
1100(iv) 
alpha-Amylase from Bacillus megaterium expressed in Bacillus 
subtilis 
1100(v) 
alpha-Amylase from Bacillus stearothermophilus expressed in 
Bacillus subtilis 
1100(ii) 
alpha-Amylase from Bacillus stearothermophilus 
1100(iii) 
alpha-Amylase from Bacillus subtilis 
300 
Ascorbic acid, L- 
162 
Beet red 
1403 
Bleached starch 
1101(iii) 
Bromelain 
629 
Calcium 5'-guanylate 
633 
Calcium 5'-inosinate 
634 
Calcium 5'-ribonucleotides 
263 
Calcium acetate 
404 
Calcium alginate 
302 
Calcium ascorbate 
170(i) 
Calcium carbonate 
509 
Calcium chloride 
623 
Calcium di-L-glutamate 
578 
Calcium gluconate 
526 
Calcium hydroxide  
327 
Calcium lactate  
352(ii) 
Calcium malate, DL-  
529 
Calcium oxide  
282 
Calcium propionate  
552 
Calcium silicate  
516 
Calcium sulfate  


<<<PAGE 343>>>
150a 
Caramel I – plain caramel  
1100(vi) 
Carbohydrase from Bacillus licheniformis  
290 
Carbon dioxide  
410 
Carob bean gum  
407 
Carrageenan  
427 
Cassia gum  
140 
Chlorophylls  
330 
Citric acid  
472c 
Citric and fatty acid esters of glycerol  
468 
Cross-linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (Cross-linked-
cellulose gum) 
424 
Curdlan  
457 
Cyclodextrin, alpha-  
458 
Cyclodextrin, gamma-  
1504(i) 
Cyclotetraglucose  
1504(ii) 
Cyclotetraglucose syrup 
1400 
Dextrins, roasted starch  
628 
Dipotassium 5'-guanylate  
627 
Disodium 5'-guanylate 
631 
Disodium 5'-inosinate 
635 
Disodium 5'-ribonucleotides  
1412 
Distarch phosphate  
315 
Erythorbic acid (Isoascorbic acid)  
968 
Erythritol  
462 
Ethyl cellulose  
467 
Ethyl hydroxyethyl cellulose 
297 
Fumaric acid  
418 
Gellan gum  
575 
Glucono delta-lactone  
1102 
Glucose oxidase  (Note FS01) 
620 
Glutamic acid, L(+)-  
422 
Glycerol 
626 
Guanylic acid, 5'-  
412 
Guar gum  
414 
Gum arabic (Acacia gum)  
507 
Hydrochloric acid  
463 
Hydroxypropyl cellulose  


<<<PAGE 344>>>
1442 
Hydroxypropyl distarch phosphate  
464 
Hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose  
1440 
Hydroxypropyl starch  
630 
Inosinic acid, 5'-  
953 
Isomalt (Hydrogenated isomaltulose)  
416 
Karaya gum  
425 
Konjac flour  
270 
Lactic acid, L-, D- and DL-  
472b 
Lactic and fatty acid esters of glycerol  
966 
Lactitol  
322(i), (ii) Lecithins 
1104 
Lipases  (Note FS02) 
160d(iii) 
Lycopene, Blakeslea trispora  
160d(i) 
Lycopene, synthetic  
160d(ii) 
Lycopene, tomato  
504(i) 
Magnesium carbonate  
511 
Magnesium chloride  
625 
Magnesium di-L-glutamate  
580 
Magnesium gluconate  
528 
Magnesium hydroxide  
504(ii) 
Magnesium hydroxide carbonate  
329 
Magnesium lactate, DL-  
530 
Magnesium oxide  
553(i) 
Magnesium silicate, synthetic  
 
 
82[470 (iii) 
Insertion of provision 
 
Magnesium stearate] 
 
[This amendment shall come into force on 1st September, 2023] 
 
518 
Magnesium sulfate 
  
296 
Malic acid, DL-  
965(i) 
Maltitol  
965(ii) 
Maltitol syrup  


<<<PAGE 345>>>
421 
Mannitol  
461 
Methyl cellulose 
465 
Methyl ethyl cellulose  
460(i) 
Microcrystalline cellulose (Cellulose gel)  
471 
Mono- and di-glycerides of fatty acids 
624 
Monoammonium L-glutamate  
622 
Monopotassium L-glutamate  
621 
Monosodium L-glutamate 
1410 
Monostarch phosphate  
941 
Nitrogen  
942 
Nitrous oxide  
1404 
Oxidized starch  
1101(ii) 
Papain  
440 
Pectins  
1413 
Phosphated distarch phosphate  
1200 
Polydextroses  
964 
Polyglycitol syrup  
1202 
Polyvinylpyrrolidone, insoluble  
632 
Potassium 5’-inosinate  
261 
Potassium acetates  
402 
Potassium alginate  
303 
Potassium ascorbate  
501(i) 
Potassium carbonate  
508 
Potassium chloride 
332(i) 
Potassium dihydrogen citrate  
577 
Potassium gluconate  
501(ii) 
Potassium hydrogen carbonate  
515(ii) 
Potassium hydrogen sulfate  
525 
Potassium hydroxide  
326 
Potassium lactate  
351(ii) 
Potassium malate  
283 
Potassium propionate  
515(i) 
Potassium sulfate  
460(ii) 
Powdered cellulose  
407a 
Processed eucheuma seaweed   
944 
Propane  


<<<PAGE 346>>>
280 
Propionic acid  
1101(i) 
Protease  
1204 
Pullulan  
470(i) 
Salts of myristic, palmitic and stearic acids with ammonia, 
calcium, potassium and sodium 
470(ii) 
Salts of oleic acid with calcium, potassium and sodium  
551 
Silicon dioxide, amorphous  
350(ii) 
Sodium DL-malate  
262(i) 
Sodium acetate  
401 
Sodium alginate  
301 
Sodium ascorbate  
500(i) 
Sodium carbonate  
466 
Carboxymethyl cellulose  
469 
Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, enzymatically hydrolysed 
(Cellulose gum, enzymatically hydrolyzed) 
331(i) 
Sodium dihydrogen citrate 
316 
Sodium erythorbate (Sodium isoascorbate)  
365 
Sodium fumarates  
576 
Sodium gluconate  
350(i) 
Sodium hydrogen DL-malate  
500(ii) 
Sodium hydrogen carbonate  
514(ii) 
Sodium hydrogen sulfate  
524 
Sodium hydroxide  
325 
Sodium lactate  
281 
Sodium propionate  
500(iii) 
Sodium sesquicarbonate  
514(i) 
Sodium sulfate  
420(i) 
Sorbitol  
420(ii) 
Sorbitol syrup  
1420 
Starch acetate  
1450 
Starch sodium octenyl succinate  
1405 
Starches, enzyme treated  
553(iii) 
Talc  
417 
Tara gum  
957 
Thaumatin  
171 
Titanium dioxide  


<<<PAGE 347>>>
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
413 
Tragacanth gum  
1518 
Triacetin  
380 
Triammonium citrate  
333(iii) 
Tricalcium citrate  
332(ii) 
Tripotassium citrate  
331(iii) 
Trisodium citrate 
415 
Xanthan gum 
967 
Xylitol  


<<<PAGE 348>>>
ANNEX TO GMP Table 
 
Food Categories or Individual Food Items where GMP Table shall not apply 
 
Sr. 
No 
Category  
number 
Food category 
1.  1.1.1 
Milk and buttermilk (plain) (excluding heat-treated 
buttermilk) 
2.  1.1.1.1 
Milk (plain) 
3.  1.1.1.2 
Buttermilk (plain) 
4.  1.2 
Fermented and renneted milk products (plain) excluding 
food category 1.1.2    (dairy based  drinks) 
5.  1.2.1 
Fermented and renneted milk products (plain), excluding 
food category 1.1.2 (dairy-based drinks) 
6.  1.2.1.1 
Fermented milks (plain), not heat-treated after fermentation 
7.  1.2.1.2 
Fermented milks (plain), heat-treated after fermentation 
8.  1.2.2 
Renneted milk (plain) 
9.  1.4.1 
Pasteurized cream (plain) 
10. 1.4.2 
Sterilized and UHT creams, whipping or whipped creams, 
and reduced fat creams (plain) 
11. 1.6.3 
Whey Cheese 
12. 1.6.6 
Whey protein cheese 
13. 1.8.2 
Dried whey and whey products, excluding whey cheese 
14. 2.1 
Fats and oils essentially free from water 
15. 2.1.1 
Butter oil, anhydrous milkfat, ghee
 
16. 2.1.2 
Vegetable oils and fats 
17. 2.1.3 
Lard, tallow, fish oil, and other animal fats 


<<<PAGE 349>>>
Sr. 
No 
Category  
number 
Food category 
18. 2.2.1 
Butter 
19. 4.1.1 
Fresh fruit 
20. 4.1.1.1 
Untreated fresh fruit 
21. 4.1.1.2 
Surface-treated fresh fruit 
22. 4.1.1.3 
52[Peeled or cut, minimally processed fruit] 
23. 4.2.1 
Fresh vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and 
tubers, pulses and legumes,and aloe vera), seaweeds, and 
nuts and seeds 
24. 4.2.1.1 
Untreated fresh vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, 
roots and tubers, pulses and legumes [(including soybeans)], 
and aloe vera), seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
25. 4.2.1.2 
Surface-treated fresh vegetables (including mushrooms and 
fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), 
seaweeds, and nuts and seeds 
26. 4.2.1.3 
52[Peeled, cut or shredded minimally processed vegetables 
((including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, 
 
fresh pulses and legumes, and aloe vera) sea weeds, 
 
nuts 
and 
seeds)] 
 
27. 4.2.2.1 
Frozen vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots 
and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), seaweeds, 
and nuts and seeds 
28. 4.2.2.7 
Fermented vegetable (including mushrooms and fungi, roots 
and tubers, pulses and   legumes, and aloe vera), and 
seaweed products, excluding fermented soybean products of 
food categories  6.8.6, 6.8.7, 12.9.1, 12.9.2.1 and 12.9.2.3 
29. 6.1 
Whole, broken or flaked grain, including rice 


<<<PAGE 350>>>
Sr. 
No 
Category  
number 
Food category 
30. 6.2 
Flours and starches (including soybean powder) 
31. 6.2.1 
Flours 
32. 6.2.2 
Starches 
33. 6.4.1 
Fresh pastas and noodles and like products 
34. 6.4.2 
Dried pastas and noodles and like products 
35. 8.1 
Fresh meat, poultry, and game 
36. 8.1.1 
Fresh meat, poultry, and game, whole pieces or cuts 
37. 8.1.2 
Fresh meat, poultry, and game, comminuted 
38. 9.1 
Fresh fish and fish products, including molluscs, crustaceans 
and echinoderms 
39. 9.1.1 
Fresh fish 
40. 9.1.2 
Fresh mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
41. 9.2 
Processed fish and fish products, including molluscs, 
crustaceans and echinoderms 
42. 9.2.1 
Frozen fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including 
mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
43. 9.2.2 
Frozen battered fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including 
mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
44. 9.2.3 
Frozen minced and creamed fish products, including 
mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
45. 9.2.4 
Cooked and/or fried fish and fish products, including 
mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
46. 9.2.4.1 
Cooked fish and fish products 
47. 9.2.4.2 
Cooked mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
48. 9.2.4.3 
Fried 
fish 
and 
fish 
products, 
including 
mollusks, 
crustaceans, and echinoderms 


<<<PAGE 351>>>
Sr. 
No 
Category  
number 
Food category 
49. 9.2.5 
Smoked, dried, fermented, and/or salted fish and fish 
products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms 
50. 10.1 
Fresh eggs 
51. 10.2.1 
Liquid egg products 
52. 10.2.2 
Frozen egg products 
53. 11.1 
Refined and raw sugars 
54. 11.1.1 
White sugar, dextrose anhydrous, dextrose monohydrate, 
fructose 
55. 11.1.2 
Powdered sugar, powdered dextrose 
56. 11.1.3 
Soft white sugar, soft brown sugar, glucose syrup, dried 
glucose syrup, raw cane sugar 
57. 11.1.3.1 
Dried 
glucose 
syrup 
used 
to 
manufacture 
sugar 
confectionery 
58. 11.1.3.2 
Glucose syrup used to manufacture sugar confectionery 
59. 11.1.4 
Lactose 
60. 11.1.5 
Plantation or mill white sugar 
52[60A 11.1.6 
Gur or Jaggery 
60B 
11.1.6.1 
Cane Jaggery/Gur 
60C 
11.1.6.2 
Palm Jaggery/Gur 
60D 
11.1.6.3 
Date Jaggery/Gur] 
61. 11.2 
Brown sugar, excluding products of food category 11.1.3 
(soft white sugar, soft brown sugar, glucose syrup, dried 
glucose syrup, raw cane sugar) 
62. 11.3 
Sugar solutions and syrups, also (partially) inverted, 
including treacle and molasses, excluding products of food 
category 11.1.3 (soft white sugar, soft brown sugar, glucose 


<<<PAGE 352>>>
Sr. 
No 
Category  
number 
Food category 
syrup, dried glucose syrup, raw cane sugar) 
63. 11.4 
Other sugars and syrups (e.g., xylose, maple syrup, sugar 
toppings) 
64. 11.5 
Honey 
65. 12.1 
Salt and salt substitutes 
66. 12.1.1 
Salt 
67. 12.1.2 
Salt substitutes 
68. 12.2.1 
Herbs and spices (EXCLUDING SPICES) 
69. 14.1.1 
Waters 
70. 14.1.1.1 
Natural mineral waters and source waters 
71. 14.1.1.2 
Table waters and soda waters 
72. 14.1.2 
Fruit and vegetable juices 
73. 14.1.2.1 
Fruit juice 
74. 14.1.2.2 
Vegetable juice 
75. 14.1.2.3 
Concentrates for fruit juice 
76. 14.1.2.4 
Concentrates for vegetable juice 
77. 14.1.3 
Fruit and vegetable nectars 
78. 14.1.3.1 
Fruit nectar 
79. 14.1.3.2 
Vegetable nectar 
80. 14.1.3.3 
Concentrates for fruit nectar 
81. 14.1.3.4 
Concentrates for vegetable nectar 
82. 14.1.5 
Coffee, coffee substitutes, tea, herbal infusions, and other 


<<<PAGE 353>>>
Sr. 
No 
Category  
number 
Food category 
hot cereal beverages, excluding cocoa 
83. 14.2.3 
Grape wines 
84. 14.2.3.1 
Still grape wine 
85. 14.2.3.2 
Sparkling and semi-sparkling grape wines 
86. 14.2.3.3 
Fortified grape wine, grape liquor wine, and sweet grape 
wine] 


<<<PAGE 354>>>
 
